---
title: "Unknown"
video_id: "CMuwP0u-Sjg"
youtube_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CMuwP0u-Sjg"
publish_date: "unknown"
duration: "unknown"
duration_seconds: 0
view_count: 0
author: "AI Search"
description: ""

yt_tags:
  []


# AI-enriched metadata
content_type: "Tutorial"
primary_topic: "AI Strategy"
difficulty: "Advanced"
audience:
  - "Executives"
  - "Product Managers"
entities:
  companies:
    - "GitHub"
    - "Box"
    - "YouTube"
  people:
    []
  products:
    - "Make"
    - "Artifacts"
  models:
    - "CLIP"
concepts:
  []
summary:
  - "# Unknown

Finally, we have a free and open source AI that's pretty good for music production"
keywords:
  - "artifacts"
  - "box"
  - "frameworks"
  - "github"
  - "make"
  - "product-management"
  - "prompting"
  - "tutorials"
  - "workflows"
  - "youtube"
---

# Unknown

Finally, we have a free and open source AI that's pretty good for music production. This allows you to create separate stems that actually fit together so you can mix and master them manually to create a full song. And the best part is this works with low VRAM, plus this is insanely fast. So in this video, I'm going to show you some really cool demos. Plus, of course, I'm also going to go over how to install this so you can run it for free and unlimited times offline. Let's jump right in. Alright so the model is called Foundation 1 and the really awesome thing about this is this actually follows the tempo, the key and the number of bars that you specify. Plus this is also trained to understand instruments, timbre, effects and notation in your prompt. Here's some more details on what Foundation 1 does. This can generate musically coherent loops for production workflows. As I mentioned before this understands BPM and bar count and also major and minor keys. This also is able to understand a ton of different effects like reverb, delay, distortion, modulation in your prompt. You can also specify wet or dry within your prompt and it's able to understand this. Anyways, let's jump straight in with some demos. So here is their prompt. This is going to be a bass with medium delay, medium reverb, low distortion, phaser, sub bass, upper mids, acid, gritty, wide, dubstep, et cetera, et cetera. Plus it's going to be eight bars at 140 BPM in the key of E minor. Let's hear what this sounds like. . So it does have some bass plus mids. There is some phaser effect, plus there is like medium delay and reverb, plus it does sound acid and gritty. And I verified that this is indeed eight bars at 140 BPM in the key of E minor. Here's another example. Here's another bass track. So it's going to be sub bass, bass, gritty, small, square. So you can even like define the shape of the synth. and then dark digital, thick, et cetera, et cetera. Epic choppy melody, four bars, 150 BPM in the key of G sharp minor. And indeed, this does sound like a square shape. It's pretty small, plus it's clean and simple. Or here's a flute example, so it's gonna be flute, and then pizzicato, punchy, present, ambient, et cetera, et cetera. And then here we have a high saw, spacey lead, warm, silky smooth, et cetera, et cetera. We're even going to add some pitch blend. Plus it's going to be an arpeggio with these settings. Let's hear what this synth lead sounds like. And this sounds beautiful. Indeed, we have some upper mids. This does sound like high saw. Plus, we do hear some really obvious pitch blends, and this is an arpeggio. This sounds like a beautiful synth lead to put on a track. Then next, here's a trumpet example. Not bad. And then here's a piccolo example. Also pretty decent. I could hear some elements of a flute and also a music box in this track. Next here is a fiddle bowed strings example. Let's hear what this sounds like. Again, not bad. Now this doesn't really sound like a real string orchestra, but this can easily be a sample which you overlay in the background of a track. And then here is a kalimba, mallet, medium, reverb, et cetera, et cetera. Let's hear what this sounds like. Really cool. So those are some of their examples. Next, let me actually show you my personal demo on how I can get this to generate a few samples and then layer these samples together to create a full song in a DAW. Now, here's what the interface looks like. Don't worry, in the latter half of the video, I'm gonna show you exactly how to install and set this up so you can run it for free and offline on your computer. Here's where I enter my prompt. For my first prompt, let's do something like high saw, spacey, lead, warm, silky smooth, et cetera, et cetera pitch bend and arpeggio. Notice that it can actually understand all these different keywords. And then over here, I'm going to select eight bars. And then for BPM, let's go with 120. And let's set the key to G major. Note that this model is able to generate something that follows all these settings. Anyways, let's press generate and note that I'm using an RTX 5000 ADA, which has 16 gigabytes of VRAM. So you can see that it only takes like 15 seconds to generate one audio track. So this This is incredibly fast given that everything is local and offline. And here's what I got. Let me play this for you first. Not bad. So next, what I'm gonna do is download this file and I'm going to drag and drop this into a DAW. So let me drop it in here and let me also make sure the BPM is set to 120 and let's call this something like synth. So that's my first track by itself. It's nothing much, but let's add more to this. So let's generate another track. This time it's going to be fast Rhodes piano dance, upbeat, energetic ping pong and wide. I'm going to leave all these settings the same so it can blend in nicely with my previous track. Let's press generate. And again, this is super quick. It only takes around 15 seconds to generate an audio clip. And here's what I got. Not bad. Let me download this and then I'm gonna drag and drop it as another track on my DAW. So now if I play both tracks together, here's what it sounds like. So you can see they do kind of fit together. It's the same key and the same BPM. Now, of course, I'm not just gonna layer them like this. I'm gonna mix and master them a bit better afterwards. But next let's generate yet another track. This time let's try spacey, futuristic, kawaii, lead, warm, silky smooth, et cetera, et cetera. Let's see what that gives us. All right, here's my result. you can hear it's quite a nice arpeggio with some nice reverb. Let me download this. And again, I'm gonna drag and drop it onto my DAW like this. So now we have three tracks. Now a really cool thing about this is you can also download the MIDI file of your generated audio. So these are basically the notes of this audio clip, and you can plug in another instrument to play these notes afterwards. So let me download this MIDI file and then back to my DAW, let me first create a new instrument. So I'm gonna use this Chimes virtual instrument for your reference. Here's what it sounds like. Now, what I'm gonna do is take the MIDI file that I downloaded and drag it onto here. So now if I just solo this track, it's gonna play this sound, but using my chimes instrument. So let's hear what that sounds like. Now it's not perfect, but it's pretty close to the original melody. Now there's too many mids for all these tracks. So actually what I'm going to do is select everything and move it one octave up. Let's play this again. Perfect. So by now we already have four tracks that were generated with this AI. Next, I feel like adding some staccato strings to the song as well. So for my prompt up here, let's try something like fiddle, strings, staccato, short, powerful, epic, et cetera, et cetera. And here is my result. Not bad. Next, let me also download this track and then drag and drop it into my DAW. So right now we have all five of these tracks. Let me play you everything first. This is going to sound pretty noisy and muddy, but I'm going to clean it up afterwards. Alright, so it sounds like that. Now what I'm going to do is manually add some bass and also some drums because apparently for this AI, note that percussion and drum sounds are outside the scope. So I'm going to add some bass and drums. I'm going to rearrange certain things, pan stuff left and right to basically mix this better. Alright, so that's pretty much it. It's just a really simple song that I made in like three minutes. Here's what it sounds like from beginning to end. Nothing too fancy, but as you can see with this AI, I can now create like multiple samples that align to the same BPM and key and then mix and master them together myself to create a full song. I can also download the MIDI files so I only get information about the notes and then I can play these notes with another virtual instrument if I want. I can also take an existing track and use that as a reference to generate a new track, which I'll show you later in the video. So overall, a super flexible tool. On my channel, I featured so many different AI models and tools, it can be very overwhelming. What if you can use all of these models all in one platform? And that brings us to Chat LLM by Abacus AI, the sponsor of this video. Chat LLM is an all-in-one platform for you to use the best AI models out there. You can seamlessly switch between different models in your chats. Plus you can also use all the top image generators out there, as well as the top video models out there, all in one integrated platform. And they're usually very quick to add a model to their site once it comes out. Plus, if you're coding something, they have a really useful artifacts feature so that you can preview your generation side by side. Plus, they have a deep agent feature which can do some really complex tasks all autonomously, like creating PowerPoints, websites, and research reports. It's going to supercharge your productivity. Best of all, you can access all these AI models and image and video generators and DeepAgent for only $10 a month. This is way cheaper than if you paid for each tool separately. Definitely check out chat LLM that comes with DeepAgent in the description below. Now, before we go over how to install this, let's also go over some additional specs of this model. On this main page, which I'll link to in the description below, this includes all the instruments that Foundation One was trained on. So it's especially good at synths, as you can hear from my examples. You can also do like keys, bass, bowed strings, mallet, wind, guitar, brass, vocal, and plucked strings. So these are the main categories of instruments. And if you break that down further, it includes all of these. So like it includes different types of synths. You can also do digital piano or a pluck or a grand piano, bell, pad, atmosphere, digital strings, violin, et cetera, et cetera. There's a Rhodes piano here, cello, flute, marimba, trumpet, pan flute, choir, harp, church organ, acoustic guitar, et cetera, et cetera. So these are all the instruments that it supports. If you don't see the instrument on your list, then chances are it's not going to be a generate a good sample of it. Here's the instrument breakdown from its training data for your reference. You can see it's mostly like synth lead and synth bass, and that's why it does really well in generating synth samples. And then you can also control the timbre of your samples. So You can use words like warm, bright, wide, airy, thick, rich, et cetera, et cetera. A ton of different keywords, which you can use to shape your sample even further. And then as I've showed you, you can also add additional effects to your sample. For example, you can control the reverb and the delay and also distortion, phaser, bit crush. And then you can also control like the music notation and structure of the sample. For example, you can make it a chord progression or a melody or an arpeggio, et cetera, et cetera. So like these are all the keywords which you can add to your prompt to control the musical structure further. And then like I said, this also can follow the bar length and the BPM that you specify, but note that currently it only works with these BPMs so you can't do faster or slower. So here's the recommended prompt structure. you would add an instrument family and then the specific instrument. And then you would add some timbre tags if you want, such as warm, smooth, et cetera. And then you would add the notation. So like melody or arpeggio, et cetera. And then you would add the effect like reverb, delay, et cetera. And that's pretty much it. All right, next let's go over how to install this. So I'll link to this main page in the description below. And if you scroll all the way down, here are the installation instructions. First note that this is designed to run really quickly on consumer GPUs. So the typical VRAM usage is approximately nine gigabytes. So you should have at least eight gigabytes of VRAM to run this. That's the minimum requirement. I'm sure because this is open source. If this gets popular, there might also be more quantized versions of this that can fit on lower VRAM. But just note that the official version requires eight gigabytes of VRAM. And this is insanely fast. So on an RTX 3090, they say that this only takes like seven to eight seconds per Here they recommend that you use this Stable Audio fork. So we first need to download this. So I'm gonna click on this link here. I'll also link to this in the description below. So this is called RC Stable Audio Tools. The interface is really simple and here are the instructions. So let's go over this really quickly. Now for the first line, you do need get installed on your computer first. If you don't have get installed, here's how to install it. If you already have get installed, feel free to skip to the next section. I'll link to this page in the description below. Simply select the release for whatever operating system you're using. I'm using Windows, so I'm just going to click on download for Windows. I'm running 64 bit, so I'm going to click on this to download and it's now downloading this exe file. So once that's completed, all we got to do is open that exe file and then follow the steps. So I'm going to click on next. I'm just going to go with the default install location, which is program files slash git. So I'll click next for that. And then I'm just going to leave this at the default. And then I'm going to click next again and click next here. We're just going to use the default settings for all of these. There's a lot of settings that you need to go through. So I'm just going to click next for all of these. All right. And then it should go ahead and install all the files. So this might take a few minutes. Perfect. So now we have git installed. All right, so assuming you do have Git installed, the next step is to choose where on your computer you want to download this. For me, I'm gonna download it on my desktop. So in my desktop folder at the top here, I'm going to type CMD to open up my desktop in command prompt. And then afterwards, we simply need to copy this line to use Git to clone this repository. So let me press enter. And this is going to basically proceed to clone all these files and folders into a folder on my desktop. All right. So after that's done, you should see this new folder on your desktop. And if I open this, it's going to contain all the files and folders from the GitHub repo. Now, right now in our command prompt terminal, we are within our desktop folder. We need to change our directory to this new RC stable audio tools folder. So let me copy this line and then paste it in here. So you can see right now we are within this new folder, which we just downloaded. All right, the next step is we need to create a virtual environment. Now, You could just download Python on your computer and create a virtual environment using this way. But what I would highly recommend instead is to use Conda to create a virtual environment because Conda allows you to create virtual environments using whatever Python version you specify. And this is going to save you a ton of headache, especially when you download other AI tools on your computer. Now, if you don't have Conda installed, here's how to install it. If you already have Conda installed, feel free to skip to the next section. Now, Anaconda is a package that installs a ton of different Python libraries for data science and machine learning. However, Anaconda is quite bulky, so it takes up a few gigabytes in size. So what I recommend instead is installing MiniConda. This is a bare bones package of Anaconda, which only installs the essential packages, and you can always install additional packages later if you want. So this saves you a lot of space and it's faster to install. So I'm going to link to this mini condo installer page in the description below. And then if you scroll down here, all you need to do is click on this link and a cona.com slash download, and then you do need to sign up for free first, but then afterwards you can download this mini condo installer. So let's click on this and then you can save this anywhere. All right. After downloading the exe, I'm going to open this up and it's going to launch this installer. So I'm going to click next. and then agree, and then let's set this to all users. I'm going to go with the default destination folder, and then I'm going to check this as well, clear the package cache upon completion. This just gives you back some more disk space without affecting functionality. All right, once that's completed, let's click next, and then we are finished. Now we aren't done yet, so if you open up the command prompt and you type in conda dash dash version, you're still going to see that conda is not recognized. This is because we haven't added anaconda to our path yet. So let's exit out of this, and then to add it to our path, we simply search for this function, edit the system environment variables. We're going to click on this, and then click on environment variables, and then click on the one that says path, and then click click edit. And here's where you add in the path of Anaconda. So it depends where you installed Anaconda. For me, I installed it in program data. So it's going to be in program data slash mini Conda. And then if I double click on scripts, you can see that Conda is here. So this is the folder we want to paste in. So I'm going to right click on this and then copy as path. And then back in the environment variables window, I'm going to click new and then paste in the path here and then click click OK, and then OK, and then OK again. Now, when you open up Command Prompt again and you type in conda dash dash version, you should see a version of conda installed on your computer. So this signifies that you have now successfully installed conda. All right, so assuming you do have conda installed, note that here it's recommended that you use Python 3.10 because newer versions like 3.11 or beyond can fail dependency resolution. So going back to our terminal again, within this new folder, I'm going to type this, I'm going to use conda to create a new virtual environment, which we will name stable audio, and it's going to use Python 3.10. So let's press enter. And it's now proceeding to create this virtual environment. which is going to be named stable audio. Now the point of creating a virtual environment is that you can think of this as like a separate hard drive on your computer that houses all the packages and dependencies needed to run this tool. You want to make it separate so that it doesn't conflict with existing AI tools or other stuff on your computer which might use different dependencies or different versions of Python. So anyways afterwards you should see this line again with no error messages. Now the next step is to use conda to activate this new virtual environment, which we named stable audio. So let me copy this line and then paste it in here. And you should see stable audio, the name of your virtual environment in parentheses at the start of the line, which signifies that you are now within your virtual environment. Now, the next step is to use pip to install stable audio tools, as well as all the other dependencies and packages. Now we're going to skip this step for now and then proceed with this one first. So if you do have a CUDA GPU, then it's best to actually install the CUDA version of torch first before you proceed with the other dependencies. So what I'm going to do first is copy this line and then paste it in here. So this is going to install torch torch vision and torch audio for a CUDA environment. And this is over two gigabytes in size, so it's gonna take a while depending on the speed of your internet. All right, afterwards, you should see this line again with no error messages, which means you have successfully installed Torch for CUDA. Now, the next step is to go back here and install all these additional dependencies. So I'm just going to select this first line and then paste it in here. So this is going to proceed to install stable audio tools, which also takes a while to download. All right, afterwards, you should see this line again with no error messages, which means you have successfully installed stable audio tools. Now, the next step is to also install the rest of the packages. So let's copy this line and then paste it in here. And again, this is going to proceed to install a ton of dependencies, which is going to take a while. So let's give it a few minutes for this to complete. All right, afterwards, you should see this line again. And that means you have successfully installed RC stable audio. Next, let me show you how to start this from scratch the next day. So I'm going to exit out of this terminal and all you need to do is click into this newly downloaded Stable Audio Tools folder and then at the top here, type in CMD to open this up in command prompt and then afterwards type in Conda activate and then whatever you named your virtual environment. In our case, we named it stable-audio. So after entering that line, we are now within our Stable Audio virtual environment. So the next step is to set simply copy and paste this line. So this uses Python to open this run gradio.py file, which basically starts up the interface. So let's enter this and wait for it to load. All right, afterwards, you should see this link. So let's hold down control and click on this, which will open up this interface on your web browser. After you see this interface here, it actually prompts you to download a model first. So yes, we are going to select this foundation one model. So let's click on download and this is going to proceed to download this model. Now note that the model is roughly 2.4 gigabytes. So it's gonna take a few minutes to download. Now afterwards it should say download complete. So we need to now start this interface from scratch again. So let me exit out of this and also exit out of this. let's start this again so in my stable audio tools folder at the top here I'm going to type cmd and then type conda activate stable dash audio to open the virtual environment and then I'm going to type python run gridio.py so let's hold down control and then click on this link and now since we've downloaded the model we see this new interface and we can now start generating some audio clips Here's how it works. Let's go over all these settings. So here is where you would enter the prompt describing the audio that you want. And then over here is where you can select the model to use to generate the audio. Now for me, I've only downloaded this foundation one model. So that's what I'm going to use. And then here is where you can specify the number of bars to generate as well as the beats per minute, and then also the key to use. And then here's where you set the seed. So if you're not familiar with the term seed, this is basically like the start point of your generation. If you use the exact same prompt and the exact same settings, but you use a different seed, then it gives you a slightly different variation, which is what you usually want. So for me, I just leave this at minus one, which would set the seed at a random value. So I would get a slightly different variation every time. Now, if we expand this sampler params component, here are some additional settings, which you can tweak. So the number of steps is how many steps it takes for the model to generate the audio. In general, the more steps you have, the higher quality will be but at a certain point, you're going to get diminishing returns. And of course, the more steps you have, the longer it will take to generate. Conversely, if you set this to a lower number, then it's going to generate faster, but at the sacrifice of some quality, it seems like the sweet spot here is 75. So let's just leave it at that. And then CFG is like how literally you want the AI to follow your prompt up here. So setting this to a higher value would make it listen to your prompt more, whereas setting this lower would make it more creative and introduce some more randomness to your prompt. And then here is where you can also select the different algorithm used to actually generate the audio. For me, I just tend to leave all these settings at the default. And that's pretty much it. For the prompt, let's just try a simple one like SynthPad and then press generate. Now note that I'm using an RTX 5000 which has 16 gigabytes of VRAM and for 8 bars this is actually pretty quick so it only takes around like less than 20 seconds. And here's what I got. And there you go, that was a pretty simple one, but this is indeed eight bars at 128 BPM in the key of F minor. It even gives you a nice piano roll here so you can see the exact keys that were played in the sample Plus you can also download the MIDI file to drag and drop onto your DAW. For example, let me download this MIDI file and then drag and drop it onto my DAW. And here's what the MIDI file looks like. Here are the notes from my audio samples. So you can select any instrument to play these notes out. For example, here, I just have a simple synth. Here's what the default sound sounds like. All right, and then let's play this MIDI file out. Really cool, so not only can you just download this raw audio clip, but you can also download the notes via a MIDI file and then change up the instrument yourself. Now here's another really cool feature called style transfer. So here is where you can upload a reference clip for you to edit or copy the style of. For example, I'm gonna upload this clip. Let me play this for you first. Alright so that's the original clip and yes I'm going to check this to use for style transfer. Now here is basically where you set the influence of this clip. So the lower this setting the more influence or the stronger your output would resemble this clip. If you drag it more to the right then this clip will have less influence. Let's set it to something like 2.5 for example and just to give you a simple example let's add more reverb and ping pong delay to this clip. And let's press generate. Again, this is super quick for me. It only takes like 16 seconds to generate an 8 bar audio clip. Alright, and here's what I got. So as you can hear, indeed, it added some more reverb and a ping pong delay to this original track. Now let's try something else. Instead of just adding additional effects, let's turn the instruments into something else. So I'm gonna type grand piano and then at the bottom here, because we are replacing this completely with a new instrument, it's better to drag this to a higher value so that it doesn't actually retain the original stuff. And that's pretty much it. Let's press generate. All right, here's what I got. And there you go. It's able to play this audio clip, but using a new instrument, which I specify in the prompt. So this is a super flexible tool. So that sums up all the settings in this default interface. And of course, I showed you at the beginning of the video how you can create a ton of different clips and then layer them in a DAW to actually compose a full song. Now, this interface is really simple to download and use. So this is what I highly recommend. But for those comfy UI fans out there, note that there's already a comfy UI node for Foundation One, which looks like this. Now, I believe currently this comfy workflow does not include style transfer, so you can only generate audio from a text prompt without any reference audio. And that's why I prefer to use this radio interface instead. But if you are interested in trying this out in comfy UI, I will also link to this page in the description below. Anyways, that sums up my review and tutorial of foundation one. It's not perfect. It's great for synths, but for other instruments, they don't sound as realistic. I also find that it's great for arpeggios, but not so well for other things like melodies or more slower or more ambient samples. But this is just version 1. Hopefully, they'll continue to iterate on this. Also, if you're interested, I featured a ton of other really useful music generators on my channel, such as ASTEP 1.5, as well as HeartMoolah, so definitely check out these videos if you're interested in learning more. I'll link to everything in the description below. As always, I will be on the lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you. So if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe, and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's just so much happening in the world of AI every week, I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So to really stay up to date with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.
