---
title: "Best local AI video generator with sound is here!"
video_id: "KaQbt6NYrzY"
youtube_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KaQbt6NYrzY"
publish_date: "2026-03-11"
duration: "unknown"
duration_seconds: 0
view_count: 0
author: "AI Search"

yt_tags:
  []



# AI-enriched metadata
content_type: "Tutorial"
primary_topic: "AI Strategy"
difficulty: "Intermediate"
audience:
  - "Engineers"
  - "Executives"
entities:
  companies:
    - "GitHub"
    - "YouTube"
  people:
    []
  products:
    - "Make"
  models:
    []
concepts:
  []
summary:
  - "# Unknown

This is now the best open-source video generator with audio built-in"
keywords:
  - "ai-news"
  - "frameworks"
  - "github"
  - "make"
  - "prompting"
  - "tutorials"
  - "youtube"
---

# Unknown

This is now the best open-source video generator with audio built-in. It's called LTX 2.3, and this is blazing fast. It can run on low VRAM. Plus, it can generate up to 20 seconds of video and up to 4K in resolution. So, in this video, I'm going to show you some personal demos and compare it with the previous version. Plus, of course, I'm going to show you how to install this locally on your computer so you can run it for free and unlimited times offline, even if you have low VRAM. Let's jump right in. First of all, here's a brief background on the state of open- source AI video generation. So far, the only good quality model that can generate video with audio natively baked in was LTX2, which was already pretty good. But a few days ago, they just released LTX 2.3, which is quite a significant upgrade. They claimed that it has much better motion consistency and prompt understanding and audio quality compared to version two. Plus, it has new capabilities like first frame, last frame, as well as vertical formats. Now, is this really true? Here are some of my personal tests comparing the previous version two with this latest 2.3. So, for my first prompt, I put they are fighting intensely, high action, fast movements, shaky camera, intense, and cinematic. And I uploaded this image as the start frame. First, here's the generation from the older LTX2. As you can see, there's a lot more noise and distortions and inconsistencies with these highmoving scenes. Sometimes the limbs and the hands are messed up. Sometimes the faces are messed up. It's just not very consistent. And then here we have the newer LTX 2.3. Now, as you can see, it's a lot more coherent. We get considerably less warping, especially with the faces and the hands and the limbs as they move around. If you play this in slow motion or you free some of the frames, then you can still see some slight noise and distortions, but it's a lot less noticeable compared to the previous version. All right, here's my next prompt. Instead of image to video, this is just going to be a simple text video example. A group of ninjas ambushing a heavily armored samurai in a bamboo forest with swift sword strikes, acrobatic flips, and leaves swirling in the wind. And here's what I got from the older LTX2. Again, with these high action scenes, the older version two is very inconsistent. It can't really do a sword fight very well. So, the samurai isn't even striking in the right direction. He's just swinging the sword randomly. And again, we get a lot of warping and distortions around the edges of the characters, especially their limbs. And then here's what we got from LTX 2.3. This looks a lot more physically correct in terms of an actual sword fight. The dude is actually swinging in the right direction. He is trying to fight off these two ninjas and everything just looks slightly more coherent. All right, next we got to test out the famous Will Smith prompt. So, I'm going to upload a photo of Will Smith eating spaghetti. For the prompt, let's write he says, "Bro, there's no need to test this prompt anymore." while eating spaghetti. Then, massive explosions occur in the background. Here's what I got from the older version two. >> Bro, there's no need to test this prompt anymore. So, interestingly, it added a British accent to him. He can speak out the dialogue and eat the spaghetti fine. But the main problem I have with this is the audio of the explosion sounds really bad. It just sounds like some static noise. And that's one of the main issues with LTX is it can't generate these more dramatic audio effects very cleanly. Anyways, here's the generation from the newer 2.3. >> Bro, there's no need to test this prompt anymore. He can talk and eat just fine, but the difference of this one is that the explosions look more natural. Plus, the audio does sound a bit cleaner. We still get some remnants of that static noise, but it does sound a lot better than the previous version. All right, next, let's test out an anime example. And let's also add in some dialogue to see if they can speak Japanese. So, I'm going to upload this image. And then for the prompt, I'm going to write the guy says this and the girl says this. Now, here's what we got from the older LTX2. >> It did not pronounce the Japanese correctly. Plus, it kind of messed up their mouths and faces. Their mouths look really weird. But anyways, here is the generation from the newer 2.3. it was able to make them pronounce the Japanese correctly and the lip sync looks a lot better when they're speaking. You can clearly see that LTX 2.3 is a lot more capable and consistent. All right, next let's also test if it can generate a group of people singing and dancing consistently. So here I'm going to upload this photo and then for the prompt I'm going to put a K-pop group singing and dancing on stage upbeat Korean pop song. First of all, here is what I got from LTX2. >> It's not bad. It could kind of generate a Korean pop song. But again, the problem with LTX2 is if we have a high action scene with a ton of movement, then we do get some considerable warping and inconsistencies, especially with the faces and the hands, as you can see here. Now, here's the generation from LTX 2.3. >> So, I hope you can see a noticeable difference. It's a lot more consistent, especially with the faces and the limbs and the edges of the characters compared to the previous version. And it's also able to kind of generate a K-pop sounding song. So, if you're looking to generate these high action scenes with a ton of different characters or different elements, then definitely this latest version 2.3 is a lot more coherent and consistent. All right, next up, let's see if it can generate someone singing opera. So, I'm going to upload this image and then let's write she is singing opera passionately with string orchestra music in the background. Here's what we got from LTX2. It's not bad. She is able to sing opera. But here is LTX 2.3. >> This one is a hard call. They're both pretty good. I would say the one from LTX 2.3 is singing a lot more expressively and passionately. Let me know in the comments what you think. Next, let's also test out some anatomy and physics. So, here we have a gymnast doing a flip on a balance beam. First, here is the generation from LTX2. You can see this looks absolutely awful. It has all of the classic flaws of the older generation of video models. She has extra limbs. Sometimes her head is in the wrong direction. This looks pretty awful. Now, here's the generation from the newer 2.3. As you can see, this looks a lot cleaner. It's still not perfect, especially if you slow down the shot and you view it frame by frame, but overall it contains way fewer errors compared to LTX2. And then here's another example here. The prompt is, "A young figure skater gracefully ice skating on a frozen river that winds through a snowy mountainous canyon. The camera follows her dynamic movements as she skates and twirls. Fast-tracking shot, high action. Here's what we got from LCX2. And again, this looks absolutely awful. Sometimes her body is just facing in the wrong direction as she spins. So everything is just anatomically incorrect." And then here we have the newer LTX 2.3. This is way more coherent and anatomically accurate. All right, next. Let's also test my classic prompt. A princess wearing a glittery white dress. She's running away from a massive red dragon with glowing red eyes. 3D Disney Pixar style, high action, and fast movements. Now, here's the generation from the previous LTX 2, which is already really good. This is one of the best generations from an open-source model I've seen so far. Now, let's see if LTX 2.3 can make it even better. So, that's the generation from LTX 2.3. Honestly, both of them are very good. Let me know in the comments what you think. And then finally, let's also test how good it is at following camera movements as well as rendering text. So, we have this prompt. The camera pushes in towards the couple kissing. The man is in a black suit. The woman is wearing a red dress. Then tilts up to show the sky and overlay text. And they lived happily ever after. Here is what I got from LTX2. As you can see, the camera isn't really pushing in towards the couple as they kiss and then tilting up. It's not as good as following the camera movement. And also the text is just gibberish. Here is my generation from LTX 2.3. Here you can see that the camera is actually pushing in and then tilting up to show the sky with the text. So in terms of following camera movements, then LTX 2.3 is definitely better than the previous version. However, the text is still incorrect as you can see here. But at least it got most of the text correct. Whereas for the previous version, it was just absolute gibberish. I wouldn't rely on LTX2 to render text in a video, at least not from just a text prompt. It's best if you guide it with a reference image. And that brings us to the new features of LTX 2.3, which is that now this natively supports first frame and last frame uploads. That means you can upload an image to use as the first frame as well as the last frame of your generation. Now, the previous version can already do this with some unofficial workflows, but for this newer 2.3, it's supported natively. So, let's do a quick example. I'm going to upload these two photos. And then for the prompt, I'm going to put a time-lapse of a butterfly emerging from its cocoon. And here's my result. It's not too bad. And then here's another even harder test. So, I'm going to upload these two photos of two completely different scenes. And then, let's put a professional commercial of this sports shoe. The athlete starts running, then zoom into the shoe, then show it rotating on a black background with electric bolts. One continuous shot seamless transition. Now, these two frames are very different. So, as you can see, it didn't really generate a seamless shot. It just cut halfway to the black background. And that's what I tend to find with LTX 2.3, first frame, last frame. If you want a seamless transition, you have to upload two reference images that are quite similar to each other. If the last frame is very different from the first frame, then it's going to have a hard time and it just ends up doing a hard cut instead of a seamless transition. Now, the next really awesome feature about LTX 2.3 is that it can now generate vertical formats whereas the previous version cannot do vertical. So, here's a quick example. I'm going to upload this photo and then let's also test if it can generate different accents. So, we have an Australian influencer introducing this face lotion. She says in a thick Aussie accent, "Guys, you have to check out this face lotion. It's absolutely incredible. Just once a day and your face will feel amazing." And here's our result. >> Guys, you have to check out this face lotion. It's absolutely incredible. Just once a day and your face will feel amazing. >> Now, it could make her speak this out in kind of an Australian accent. The main issue I have with this is that it makes the lips sync way too exaggerated. It seems like she's speaking out this dialogue very forcefully. I do see this pattern like half of the time where it generates someone talking very forcefully and the lip sync just looks way too exaggerated. Anyways, those are some of my quick demos with version 2.3. It is noticeably better in terms of motion consistency and the audio quality is also noticeably better compared to version two. All right, next let's go over how to install this so you can run it offline for free and unlimited times. Now, there are already official workflows for this using a platform called Comfy UI, but it's quite a mess. You need to work with a ton of nodes and noodles, so it's not for everyone. And with these workflows, you need to manually download a ton of models and place them in the correct folders and then also ensure that these nodes and noodles are connected properly. So, it's a pain to install and use. Instead, what I'm going to show you today is a much easier platform that just autoinstalls everything. Plus, this works with as low as 6 GB of VRAM as long as you have enough RAM. So, the platform is called W toGP or WGP. Now, I've gone over this on my channel before, but in case you're not familiar with it, let's go over a fresh install from scratch. So, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Note that this is optimized for users with low VRAM. So, here it says that as low as 6 GB of VRAM is sufficient for certain models. I've even heard reports of users just running the older LTX version 2 with as low as like 2 GB of VRAM as long as they have enough RAM. So, this is the best and the simplest option to use LTX 2.3, especially on consumer hardware. If we scroll way down, here are the instructions on how to set this up. Note that for me, I'm using an RTX 5000 ADA with 16 GB of VRAM and I'm using Windows 11. Anyways, let's go over these instructions step by step. Now, there is a one-click installer via the Pinocchio app, which you can go over if you want. However, some users when they use Pinocchio, and it doesn't work, it's really hard to troubleshoot the error. So, what I like to do instead is just manually download everything. So, that's what I'm going to go over in this video. So, if we scroll down a bit here, we have a new Python 3.11 setup. And here are the instructions. For the first line, you do need to have Git installed on your computer first in order for this to work. If you already have Git installed, feel free to skip to the next section. If you don't, here's how to install it. I'll link to this installer page in the description below. All you need to do is download the latest release for whatever operating system you're using. So, I'm using Windows, so I'm just going to click on download for Windows. I'm running 64-bit, so I'm going to click on this to download. And it's now downloading this .exe file. So once that's completed, all we got to do is open that .exe file and then follow the steps. So I'm going to click on next. I'm just going to go with the default install location, which is program files/get. So I'll click next for that. And then I'm just going to leave this at the default. And then I'm going to click next again. And click next. Here we're just going to use the default settings for all of these. There's a lot of settings that you need to go through. So, I'm just going to click next for all of these. All right. And then it should go ahead and install all the files. So, this might take a few minutes. Perfect. So, now we have Git installed. All right. So, assuming you do have Git installed, the first step is to choose where on your computer you want to install WGP. In my case, I'm just going to install it on my desktop. So, in my desktop folder, in this top bar here, I'm just going to type cmd to open this up in command prompt. So you can see right now I'm in command prompt with this desktop folder open. And then I just need to copy this line and then paste it in here. So afterwards you can see that it's basically cloning this GitHub repository into a folder on my desktop. So afterwards if I go to my desktop you can see this new one to GP folder over here. And if I double click into it, it contains all the files and folders that you see in this GitHub repo. Now right now in our terminal we are still in this desktop folder. we need to change the directory to this new want GP folder. So I'm going to copy this line and then paste it in here. So right now you can see that we are within this want GP folder instead of desktop. All right, the next step is we need to use to create a new virtual environment. Now this does require that you have installed first. If you already have installed feel free to skip to the next section. If you don't, here's how to install it. Now, Anaconda is a package that installs a ton of different Python libraries for data science and machine learning. And most of these packages are needed to run AI tools like WGP. However, Anaconda is quite bulky, so it takes up a few gigabytes in size. So, what I recommend instead is installing minion. This is a barebones package of Anaconda, which only installs the essential packages, and you can always install additional packages later if you want. So, this saves you a lot of space and it's faster to install. So, I'm going to link to this Minionda installer page in the description below. And then if you scroll down here, all you need to do is click on this link, anaconda.com/d download. And then you do need to sign up for free first. But then afterwards, you can download this minion installer. So, let's click on this. And then you can save this anywhere. All right. After downloading the .exe, I'm going to open this up and it's going to launch this installer. So, I'm going to click next and then agree. And then let's set this to all users. I'm going to go with the default destination folder. And then I'm going to check this as well. Clear the package cache upon completion. This just gives you back some more disk space without affecting functionality. All right. Once that's completed, let's click next and then we are finished. Now, we aren't done yet. So, if you open up the command prompt and you type in- version, you're still going to see that is not recognized. This is because we haven't added Anaconda to our path yet. So, let's exit out of this. And then to add it to our path, we simply search for this function, edit the system environment variables. We're going to click on this and then click on environment variables and then click on the one that says path and then click edit. And here's where you add in the path of Anaconda. So, it depends where you installed Anaconda. For me, I installed it in program data. So, it's going to be in program data/min. And then if I doubleclick on scripts, you can see that is here. So, this is the folder we want to paste in. So, I'm going to rightclick on this and then copy as path. And then back in the environment variables window, I'm going to click new and then paste in the path here. And then click okay. And then okay. And then okay again. Now when you open up command prompt again and you type in-- version, you should see a version of installed on your computer. So this signifies that you have now successfully installed. All right, so going back to our installation tutorial, assuming that you do have installed, the next step is to copy and paste this line into our command prompt within this one to GB folder. So I'm going to paste this in and press enter. And what this does is it's going to use cond to create a new virtual environment which we are going to name one togp and this is going to use python 3.11. Now the point of creating a virtual environment is think of it as like a separate hard drive on your computer that houses all the packages and dependencies needed for wantp and this ensures that want gp runs smoothly and that it doesn't affect other existing AI tools on your computer which might require different versions of different packages. And then once you see this message, press Y to proceed. All right. Afterwards, you should see this line again with no error messages, which means you have successfully created the virtual environment. Now the next step is we need to use cond to actually activate or go in the virtual environment first. So we need to copy and paste this line into our terminal like this. Now afterwards you should see the name of your virtual environment in our case want to gp in parenthesis at the start of the line which signifies that you are now within your virtual environment. So the next step is we then need to use pip to install all these packages and dependencies. So let's copy this first line and then paste it in here. So this is first going to proceed to install torch torch vision and torch audio which are like several gigabytes in size. So, it's going to take a while depending on the speed of your internet. All right. After that, you should see this line again with no error messages. So, next we just need to copy this final line to use pip to install the rest of the requirements for want GP. So, again, let's go back to our command prompt and then paste this in. So, this is going to proceed to install some additional packages as you can see here, which is going to take a while to download. All right. So after installing all these packages, you should see this line again with no error messages. So that sums up how to install one to GP. It's only copying and pasting a few lines of code, so it's not too bad. So next, let me exit out of this terminal and show you how to start this from scratch the next day. So first, we just need to doubleclick into your WGP folder, wherever you downloaded this. And then at the top here, type in cmd to open this up in command prompt. And then next we need to use to activate or go in our virtual environment first. So let's type in activate and then whatever we named our virtual environment in our case one to GP. So you should see your environment name in parenthesis at the start of the line which signifies that you are now within your virtual environment. And the next step here is to just copy and paste this line. So this is going to use Python to run this wgp.py file which starts up the interface. So, I'm just going to paste this in here and then press enter. And fingers crossed, this is going to start the interface in my browser. Now, the first time you run this, it might take a few more minutes because it needs to install this ffmpeg.zip file. But afterwards, you should see this line, and you just need to hold down control and then click this link to open this interface on your web browser. So, this is the one to GP interface, and down here is where you can select whichever video generator you want. Now, LTX 2.3 is actually hidden in LTX2. So, let's select LTX2 first. And then down here is where we can select 2.3. And here is where we can select dev and distilled. For the dev model, this takes a bit longer to run, but it's better quality. And then for distilled, this requires fewer steps, so it runs a bit faster, but at the sacrifice of some quality. Let's just go with the distilled version for my demonstration. Now before we even start generating any videos, what I like to do first is go to configuration and then over here if we click on performance down here for default memory profile for video since we are generating videos in our instance, make sure you select the appropriate profile that fits your hardware. For example, if you happen to have a ton of RAM here, it says 64 GB of RAM but low VRAM, then profile 2 would be right for you. Or if you have the reverse, if you have low RAM but high VRAM, then you can choose profile 3. So just choose the profile that's right for you so that the performance is more optimized. And then over here, we can either choose to enter a text prompt or enter a reference image as the starting frame of the image. Plus, we can also check this to add an image as the end frame, which I'll show you in a second. And then also we can click on continue video to well continue an existing video. First of all, let's select this text prompt only first. And then let's ignore this control video process for now. Let's just go with the default prompt. And then here we can select the resolution. This goes up to 1080p. And then the aspect ratio. Again, note that the nice thing about this new LTX 2.3 is it can do vertical ratios as well. All right. So afterwards, that is pretty much it. And then here is the number of frames divided by 24 frames per second. So right now it's 241, which is roughly 10 seconds. Let's just set this to something like 100 which is roughly 4.4 seconds. So in a nutshell that is how you can use text to video and then let's press generate. Now the first time you press generate it has to load up the LTX2 model first depending on what you selected up here. So if you open up your terminal you can see that now it's proceeding to download all the models that are required to run this which is again going to take several minutes. Now, as you can see here, there's actually a ton of stuff that it needs to download. First, it needs to download the video generator model, which is almost 20 GB in size. Plus, then it needs to download this upscaler, which is almost a gigabyte in size. And then this VAE, which is 1.5 GB in size, and then also this text embedding safe tensors file, which is like over 2 GB in size. And right now, it's downloading this one, which is 4 GB in size. So, make sure you do have enough space on your hard drive in order to install everything. All right. Then it proceeded to download another model which is 13 GB in size. But then afterwards, it's now proceeding to generate the video for me. And that's why I would highly recommend you use one to GP instead of Comfy UI. Because for 1 to GP, it's actually really good at making things a lot more efficient even if you have low VRAM or RAM. So you can see like here the model is partially pinned to reserve RAM and it separated this into like 59 blocks spread across 12 GB. So especially if you're poor like me and you don't have enough high-end hardware to run this then 1GP would be the best option. Anyways you can see now it is generating the video. So, how LTX 2.3 works is it first generates the video at like half the resolution that you specified. And this makes it a lot faster. And then after that first pass, it then goes through a second round which plugs that video through an upscaler at 2x so that the resulting video matches your specified resolution. And here's my resulting video. So, this duration is not correct. It's because it spent a lot of time downloading the models to be used. But if you look at my terminal, the first pass took around 1 minute and 12 seconds and the second pass took just under a minute. So roughly two minutes to generate this video. And note that I do have an RTX 5000 with 16 GB of VRAM. Now there's more you can do with this. So you can also click on this option to upload an image to use as the first frame. So for example, I can drag and drop this image onto here. And then again, let's ignore this control video process for now. I'll talk more about that in a second. And then here is where you can control how strongly you want this image to influence your generation. Of course, the default is one because I do want to use this entire image as the start frame. And then again, we're going to ignore this control video process for now. I'll talk more about that in a second. And then let's just add in a prompt to describe this scene really quickly. And then let's press generate. All right. So, as you can see from my dashboard here, this generation took 4 minutes and 12 seconds. Let's play this. All right, not too bad. Now, instead of just using an image as the first frame, I can also click on this to add an image as the end frame. So, here's how it works. First, let me upload an image for the start frame. So, I'm going to use this one. And then down here, I can select the image to use as the end frame. So, I'm going to upload this, which is basically this scene, but zoomed out. And then let's enter in a prompt to describe this more accurately. So, it's going to be an opera singer singing passionately with an orchestra gradual zoom out to view the entire stage. And then I'm going to leave the rest of the settings the same and then click generate. All right. So, this one took 4 minutes. Let's play this. So, that's what I got. It's not really good at start and end frames. And if the frames are too different from each other, then it ends up just fading into the other scene instead of a gradual transition. So anyways, that is video with start and end frames. Next, let's go back to a text prompt example. And then here I'm going to talk about this control video process. So this is basically like control net. You can upload a reference video and choose to transfer the pose of that reference video onto your new video. Or you can also transfer depth or you can also transfer the edge of your reference video onto your new video. So let's do a quick example. I'm going to choose transfer human motion. And let's upload this video of these two dudes fighting. Let me play you the video first. All right. So it looks like this. And then here is where we can choose how much influence we want the pose of this video to control our final generation. So yes, let's leave it at one. And let's write something like two princesses fighting in the forest, intense fight, high action. And because this one is 5 seconds, let me also increase the number of frames. So it's roughly 5 seconds. And that's pretty much it. Let's press generate. All right. And here's what we get. You can see some really noticeable flaws with this generation, especially distortions with the faces and the limbs. So, honestly, this control video feature isn't as good as some other tools like one animate or scale which are used for one 2.2. But that's just one quick example of how you can use one of these features to control the movements or composition of your videos. All right, so that sums up how you can use these control video features to control the pose or composition of your generation with a reference video. And that sums up my review and installation tutorial on LTX 2.3. Let me know in the comments what you think of this. What other cool or impressive things were you able to get it to generate? If you run into any errors with the installation, welcome to copy and paste the exact error message that you see in the comments below, and I'll try to help you troubleshoot as much as possible. As always, I will be on the lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you. So, if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe, and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's just so much happening in the world of AI every week, I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So, to really stay up tod date with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.
