---
title: "Realtime AI waifus, Qwen 3.5, persistent memory, multiplayer gameplay, new image models: AI NEWS"
video_id: "8grIT-xK50M"
youtube_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8grIT-xK50M"
publish_date: "2026-03-01"
duration: "45:11"
duration_seconds: 2711
view_count: 104284
author: "AI Search"

yt_tags:
  []


# AI-enriched metadata
content_type: "News Roundup"
primary_topic: "AI News"
difficulty: "Intermediate"
audience:
  - "Engineers"
  - "Executives"
entities:
  companies:
    - "Google"
    - "Nvidia"
    - "Notion"
    - "GitHub"
    - "Hugging Face"
  people:
    - "Jensen Huang"
  products:
    - "GPT-5"
    - "Claude"
    - "Gemini"
    - "Sora"
    - "Hugging Face"
    - "Make"
    - "Sonnet"
    - "Artifacts"
    - "Nano Banana"
  models:
    - "GPT-5"
    - "Claude Sonnet"
    - "Gemini"
    - "Qwen"
    - "CLIP"
concepts:
  []
summary:
  - "5, persistent memory, multiplayer gameplay, new image models: AI NEWS

AI never sleeps"
keywords:
  - "ai-agents"
  - "ai-news"
  - "artifacts"
  - "claude"
  - "frameworks"
  - "gemini"
  - "github"
  - "google"
  - "gpt-5"
  - "hugging-face"
  - "leadership"
  - "make"
  - "nano-banana"
  - "notion"
  - "nvidia"
  - "sonnet"
  - "sora"
  - "tutorials"
---

# Realtime AI waifus, Qwen 3.5, persistent memory, multiplayer gameplay, new image models: AI NEWS

AI never sleeps. And this week has been absolutely insane. We have a new image editor that's even more physically accurate than Nano Banana. NVIDIA also releases a very unique image editor. Your virtual waifu is finally here. This AI can generate full-body avatars that you can interact with in real time in virtual reality. This AI can easily generate vector glyphs or basically an entire topography font for you. And then this AI is now the best one you can use to generate vector graphics. Alibaba releases their latest model of Quinn and not only does it have state-of-the-art intelligence, but these can fit on consumer devices. This AI is even crazier. It can generate videos from the perspective of multiple players in the same Minecraft scene. We have an incredibly lightweight audio enhancer which can run real-time on just a CPU or even your mobile phone. Sony releases a pretty cool AI for adding sound effects to a video. We have some ridiculous humanoid robot demos, and a lot more. So let's jump right in. First up, this AI is pretty fascinating. So it's called a Very Big Video Reasoning Suite, or VBVR for short. And this is a framework which you add on top of a video generator called WAN, which allows it to reason about a video. So for example, if you input this initial frame and you ask it to circle the only Chinese character in this frame, this new VBVR with WAN is able to generate a video of the Chinese character being circled. Or here's another example where at the top we give it a sequence of what it should do with the original shape and then at the bottom it needs to fill in the blanks. Now after plugging it through this video generator it's actually able to carry this out very accurately. Or here it's first given this frame where the yellow dot is the agent and it needs to go and collect all the dots from the screen and then end up in the red cell. So those are its instructions and it proceeds to generate a video of of this happening. Pretty cool. Or here's another visual puzzle where it needs to figure out which animal's head belongs to the shapes on the right, and it's able to generate a video of it placing these heads in the correct shapes. It's also pretty good at geometry, so here it's tasked to identify all triangles with a right angle, and it's able to circle the appropriate ones. Now here are some additional comparisons for your reference between this new VBVR with one compared with other video generators. You can see that with this new reasoning framework, it does a lot better than the other models. For example, here it's tasked to match the shape with the missing spot and even Seed Dance and other top models are not able to get this correct. But VBVR handles this beautifully. Or here's another example where we get it to simulate fluid equilibrium. So the fluids should have equal height at the end. And VBVR was the only one that was able to handle this. Or here's another example where we get it to rotate the object in 3D. And then here's another example where we move objects to target positions. And basically across all these examples, only VBVR was able to generate a correct video of the answer. And then here's a leaderboard for your reference. So solving these visual puzzles are quite easy for a human. It's able to solve this 97% of the time, but even for other top models like Sora 2 or VO 3.1, they score pretty badly. Like most of these are under 50%. But this new VBVR framework, if you add this to the open source 1.2.2, this scores 68.5%, which is really impressive. The awesome thing is they've released everything already. So if you click on this hugging face repo at the top here you can see that they released the framework to be added on top of one 2.2 as well as the data set that was used to train this model this contains a million video reasoning training examples that's over 310 gigabytes in size so you can take this data set and train your own video reasoning model anyways the links are up here so if you're interested in reading further i'll link to this main page in the description below Also this week, this AI is pretty cool. So it's called TTTLRM, which stands for Test Time Training for Long Context Autoregressive 3D Reconstruction. Wait a minute, where's the R and M? Anyways, what this does is it takes a bunch of photos of an object or a scene and it can turn this into a super realistic and detailed 3D model of that scene. So here's an example of this scene from a temple that was rendered with this AI model. Now it's not perfect, but it's able to capture a lot of subtle details from this temple, including some of the text and the designs of the fabric and the stuff behind it. Here's another example of this courtyard. It's able to render this 3D scene very well and capture a ton of subtle details from the scene. And then here's another very detailed 3d render of this scene. And as you can see, it's able to even capture some of the details of the wires and some of the text of these posters. And then here's another example for your reference. Now, if you compare this with other methods such as 3d GS, which is on the left, notice that for this new one, it's just a lot more detailed and consistent. So here's another example, notice that for 3d GS, there's a lot of weird smoke and clouds in the scene and a ton of inconsistencies. But with this new TTT LRM, it's a lot better. And then here's a museum example for your reference. Again, the previous 3DGS method just produces a ton of noise as you can see here. So the scene isn't really consistent, but this new method renders this a lot more cleanly. Now this doesn't just have to work with an entire scene. You can also just take multiple photos of an object and it can render a 3D Gaussian splat of that object very accurately as well, as you can see from these examples. So how this works is really interesting. It uses something called test time training, which basically allows it to quickly learn from input photos on the spot by updating some of its internal parameters called fast weights. And this allows it to efficiently compress all the photo information from your input photos into a 3D representation. The awesome thing is at the top here they've already released the code to this so if you click on this code button it takes you to this GitHub repo which contains all the instructions on how to install this and run it locally on your computer. If I click on the hugging face repo this is quite tiny it's less than 4 gigabytes in size so this should fit comfortably with most consumer GPUs. Anyways if you're interested in reading further I'll link to this page in the description below. Also this week ByteDance continues to release some really cool stuff. So here they released Dream ID Omni and this is also another video generator that can generate videos but it can take in multiple types of input including of course a text prompt but also an image and that person's voice. So here are some examples here you can enter this prompt plus this scene with Anne Hathaway but then you can also input her voice as a reference first. So here's what the voice sounds like. I came to New York to be a journalist and sent letters out everywhere and then finally Alright, so that's her voice, and then here's the video. So, you know, it can create a video of Anne Hathaway talking using her actual voice. This is great for creating deepfakes of anyone. Or here's Will Smith. Let's listen to the reference voice input first. It takes my chances with punching this dude in the face or cussing this girl out or whatever it takes. But I can't do loving kindness. All right. So that's his voice. And here's the video. This tank top is exactly what you need for this summer. Place your order now. So there you go. That's another example where we can generate a deep fake video of Will Smith using his actual voice. The cool thing is this doesn't just work with one character. You can upload multiple characters with multiple voices. So here's an example of that. Let me play you the reference voices first, and then I'm going to play you the generated video. You know, throughout two years, a two year tour, and I was pretty depressed. I did... Occasionally. The Indian movie format, it has been so for a long time and it's it's what we've grown up on and people absolutely love it. I think it's also reflective of our culture. Are you sure this is the right path? Absolutely. The viewpoint is just ahead. Now, here's the crazy thing. You can also take an existing video and edit that person's face plus their voice. So, for example, here's the original video first. And today. You used your child as bait for a month. Now we can swap that person's face into this woman plus her voice into this. Let me play you the reference voice first. Yeah, I think it's both. I think it's it can be both. It is both things like there's the kind of trust and respect and love that you have for the people that today. You used your child as bait for a monster. Now there are a ton of other methods that I've gone over on my channel for creating deep fakes of people talking, for example, Ovi or Phantom, Vase, LTX2, et cetera. But this new method, DreamID Omni is by far the most flexible. It can take in so many different types of inputs and you can do so many different things with it. Now at the top of the page, they have released a GitHub repo and here it says they're making the final preparations for the open source release. So it looks like they are going to open source version 1 in March, which is fantastic. Anyways, for now, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, we have a new state-of-the-art AI model that's really good at generating SVGs or vector designs. So if you're not familiar with the term SVG or vector graphics, these are basically designs that have a mathematical path. So you can expand this infinitely into any resolution and it would still remain clear because this is just a mathematical formula. This is not like an image with pixels. So here are some examples for your reference with the text prompt at the bottom. You can see that it's very flexible. It can generate a ton of different and diverse shapes, icons, and designs. So here are a few more designs for your reference. Again, notice that these are all vector graphics, so you can scale these indefinitely. They don't have a fixed resolution. You can even do different color gradients like this. Now, currently it's free for you to try this out. So let's give it a shot. Let's do something tricky like a cat teaching math on a whiteboard and let's press generate. All right. And as you can see, it's actually drawing this out sequentially using these math equations, which you can see at the bottom. Very cool. And then right now for some of them, it's proceeding to draw the cat for others. It's proceeding to draw the formula on the whiteboard first. Notice that this is a really complex prompt. Like you wouldn't do this for a regular simple logo design, but here I'm really trying to test its limits and see if it can generate an SVG of a really complex scene, but it's actually able to do this very well. All right, let me fast forward this a bit. And finally, we are done. Now none of these are perfect. But this is a very tricky prompt. And as you can see, for some of them, it's pretty good. Now, here's a simpler example. Let me start a new chat. And then here I can upload an image of a logo design. So for example, let me upload this. And then let's just get it to vectorize this design. So it's going to turn this image into a flat vector, which can scale indefinitely. So let's press generate. And it's going to proceed to draw out my image using these vector math equations. And it's super quick as you can see here this is the vector that was created from my uploaded image very cool now if you look at this SVG arena you can see that this new Arrow 1 model by Quiver is indeed the best at generating SVGs now I wouldn't say this is an apples to apples comparison because the rest of these models are general purpose large language models so they can do a lot more stuff whereas Arrow 1 is a model that's specialized for SVG design only so it's not really an apples to apples comparison but if If you are looking for the best AI to create these SVG vector graphics, then currently Quiver is the best one to use. And currently you can sign up for free and generate 20 free SVGs. Anyways, if you're interested in checking this out, I'll link to it in the description below. Next up, this AI is pretty crazy. It's called Solaris, and this basically generates synthetic Minecraft gameplay. But here's the thing, we already have a handful of AI models that can generate Minecraft gameplay and scenes of other games. But here's where this is different from the rest. This is specialized to generate first-person views of Minecraft, but with two players simultaneously. In other words, it can generate one video from the perspective of player one, and then another video from the perspective of player two of the same scene as you can see from the left and right columns here. Note that this is just a generated video that it made up. This is not gameplay from the actual game but it's able to understand the perspectives of both these players in the same scene which is pretty crazy. Now this is actually really hard to pull off because there's no good way to collect realistic multiplayer Minecraft data. So what they did was actually first they built something called Solaris Engine which is a custom AI system that controls two Minecraft bots. It lets them cooperate and interact with each other, including building, fighting, exploring, and mining, and then it records the first-person views from both players. So from that, they've basically collected a ton of gameplay data with 6.32 million frames per player, and from that, they used it to train this AI model, which is essentially a video generator, which can generate videos of both players at once. And they also applied this technique called self-forcing, so that it can continue to generate really long videos without losing consistency. And so afterwards, we now have this AI model which can generate very realistic looking videos from the perspectives of both players. And it can generate videos of a ton of different actions, not just walking or talking. This can also generate a ton of different actions such as multiplayer combat, or building structures, mining blocks, weather changes, torch placement, inventory changes, etc. And it keeps both players' views consistent. All right, now why is this important? Why do we need to create videos of multiple agents in the same environment? This isn't just about Minecraft, but it's a step towards training better autonomous AI systems which can interact with each other in the real world. So instead of controlling just one robot with this system, you can now control multiple robots to carry out a task for you simultaneously. Or this system can also be beneficial for creating some interactive AI game engines. Anyways, quite a fascinating study and the awesome thing is they've released everything already. So if you click on this GitHub repo, it contains the instructions on how to download Solaris and run it on your computer. They've also released this massive data set of multiplayer data, which you can use to train or fine tune a model yourself. And then for this Solaris model, if I click on the Hugging Face repo, this is roughly 29.2 gigabytes in size. So you'll probably need a high-end GPU to run this. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this paper is also pretty cool. So it's called Video MT. And the title here is Your Vision Transformer is Secretly Also a Video Segmentation Model. So what they did here is they just used a lightweight model built on a plain vision transformer model. Now a vision transformer model, think of it as like a chatbot with vision capabilities. So you can plug in images for it to analyze and answer questions about. However, in this instance, they showed that you can also apply this to be able to track and segment objects in videos. So here are some examples. You can plug this video into this AI and it's able to segment all the sheep plus the person in the background. And then here's another example where we can segment these zebras playing. Even though it's quite a tricky and complicated scene, they're moving around pretty quickly, but it's able to detect and segment each zebra quite accurately. Or here's an even trickier example where we have this person working on this doorway with a ton of objects and tools in the foreground and background, but it's able to detect and segment everything very well. And then here's another example where we get to segment everything in this scene. Now, even though a classic vision transformer model only works with images, here they used a clever query propagation trick, which allows it to reuse queries from the previous frame and mixes them with learned queries. So basically this allows it to detect and track objects frame after frame in a video very efficiently. So here they say that this method achieves competitive accuracy while being five to 10 times faster than existing approaches, reaching up to 160 frames per second. Anyways, they've already released all the instructions on how you can download and run this locally on your computer. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this page in the description below. Next up, this AI is super helpful. So it's called VecGlypher, and this basically helps you create vector fonts and glyphs from just a text description or an input image. So here's an example. You can input a reference image of some characters from a font that you want to create, for example, these characters, and it can proceed to generate the rest of the letters and characters for you like this. And in addition to these vector glyphs, it also helps you create vector outlines of every character like this. Now you don't have to upload an image. You can also just describe the font with a text prompt. For example, here, if you write active, cute, loud, sincere, vintage, word space quality, handwritten, script, etc, etc, here is what we get. And again, it's able to create the vector glyphs for all existing characters, plus also the vector outlines as well. So with this tool, you can easily create any font you want with an image or a text prompt. Now, if you compare VecGlypher with other multimodal models like GPT-5, Gemini, and Claude, and you get these top closed models to create fonts for you, notice that the quality of their generations are pretty bad. So for example, For example, if the text is business, calm, stiff, word space quality. Here is the ground truth. Here is what the font should look like in real life. But as you can see, none of the top models can actually create good looking fonts for you. But VectorGlyph does this very well. Or here's another example of an awkward, loud, playful, rugged vintage font. Here's the ground truth. Here's what the answer should look like. And as you can see, none of the top models can handle this. But this VectorGlyph is able to render this pretty well. And then here are some quantitative metrics for your reference. So across the board, in terms of generations from a text prompt and generations from a reference image, you can see that VecGlifer outperforms the top models. So if you're looking for an AI to help you create fonts and different topography, this is currently the best open source option to use. The awesome thing is they've released everything already. So if you click on this code button and you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. All the links are up here, so if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this page in the description below. Also this week, we have a new demo from Unitree Robotics. Now instead of the fancy acrobatic moves from the Unitree G1, this week they showed this demo from their latest robot dog. And this thing is an absolute beast. Here you can see it running across some really rugged terrain at incredible speeds. Here it says that it can reach a maximum speed of 5 meters per second. Plus you can see that it can effortlessly traverse all these different types of challenging terrains. Plus here they highlight that it has this IP54 rainproof design, so it's water and weather resistant. And then here we have a man standing on top of this robot. Here it's showing that it can successfully bear a load of 105 kilograms, nearly six times its own weight, demonstrating some incredible joint strength and stability. Now this demo is really impressive because instead of just showing a demo in some confined, fixed indoor space, here you can see that this robot can easily maneuver across really rough terrain and even carry really heavy stuff, making it really practical for real world outdoor tasks such as search and rescue. Now in addition to that demo from Unitree, we have another demo from AGI Bot. This time they are showcasing their AGI Bot G2 robot. And this is a very sophisticated industrial grade robot designed for really complex environments. Now unlike most other humanoid robots, this robot does not have two legs, so it just rolls around on its wheeled base. and it's mostly designed for indoor environments with flat terrain. However, you can see that this is quite a flexible robot. It has 26 degrees of freedom in its main body and 5 degrees of freedom in its waist and legs. Plus, it has very dexterous hands with 19 degrees of freedom. And as you can see, it can delicately handle these electronic components with submillimeter precision, making it super useful for doing assembly tasks in factories. It's also important to note that this robot's brain is powered by Nvidia's Jetson T5 5000 chip, which enables over 2000 teraflops of edge computing performance. Here you can see that it's running the robot through some extreme temperature tests and also load-bearing exercises, but it's able to handle all of these. Plus, this is designed for 24-7 operation with a hot swap battery system and autonomous recharging. Anyways, that's the AGI Bot G2, so that's another new robot to keep on your radar. Speaking of AI tools, you've got to check out Gamma, the sponsor of this video. Gamma is the most popular AI tool to make presentations, websites, and socials easily. And with Claude Connectors, Gamma now works natively inside Claude. So you can go from brainstorming to a finished deck without copying, pasting, or rebuilding anything. Here's how it works. In the Claude web interface, simply go to settings, and then in connectors, click on browse connectors, and then search for Gamma. Let's add this. You'll need to sign into your account and then it would proceed to make the connection. Next, here's how you would use it. First of all, let's get Claude to tell me about the top tourist attractions in Thailand. I can just simply summon gamma by typing gamma and then write create a presentation from this information. So you can see Claude is now summoning gamma. Let's press allow and it's going to use gamma to create the presentation right within Claude using Claude's outputs. And after Afterwards, here is our presentation. So it gives us a link which we can edit directly in Gamma. Let's open this and here's my result. Look how beautiful everything is. You can edit this further. It includes some really nice visuals and photos and everything is factually accurate. Before, if you wanted to make a presentation in Claude, the workflow was messy. You needed to copy and paste a ton of stuff back and forth. But now you can just stay inside Claude and use Gamma to generate or update the presentation within your conversation. As your ideas evolve, your deck evolves with them. No restarting, no reprompting. It's like your presentation can keep up with your thoughts. What's even crazier is how Gamma connects to the rest of Claude's ecosystem. You can now pull real data straight from Gmail or your Google Drive, Google Calendar, or straight from GitHub or other connectors, and then get Gamma to make a project overview presentation, or auto-create sales reports from HubSpot, or convert Notion Docs into structured slides. Claude pulls the data, Gamma turns it into something you can actually share. The Gamma connector inside Claude is a game changer for creating presentations quickly and easily. Try it out using the link in the description below. Next up, we have this new audio enhancer called Lava SR. This is an incredibly lightweight AI, which allows you to plug in some messy or noisy audio, and it can help you enhance the quality of it. And it's so lightweight that this can run roughly 5,000 times real-time on a GPU and over 60 times real-time on just a CPU. In other words, it's really real-time. So here's their official example. First, here's the input. Hey, how are you? I'm honestly pretty good today if I say so myself. And then here is the output. Hey, how are you? I'm honestly pretty good today if I say so myself. Now that's just one demo, but you can try this out for free using this online hugging face space. So let's click into this. So here's what the hugging face space looks like. You just need to upload any audio clip which you want to enhance. So for example, here's what the original clip sounds like. Oh my dear, you must. And then here are some advanced settings, which I just tend to leave it at the default, but you can also change the sampling rate plus enable denoising if it's an incredibly noisy clip. Anyways, let me click on enhance and it's basically real time. I didn't even have to wait for this to load. So anyways, here is the enhanced audio. Oh my dear, you must. All right. So that's one example really quickly. Let's try another example. So here is the original audio. An undertaker's helper who collected the coffins of little. All right, and then I'm going to click on Enhance Audio. And again, this is super quick. Here is the final upscaled result. An Undertaker's helper who collected the coffins of little... So as you can see, it's slightly more enhanced, right? There's more presence in the voice. Anyways, this thing is insanely fast and small. So you can see Lava SR can run 5,000 times real time on a GPU. Plus the model size is only 50 megabytes. So you can even potentially run this on just your mobile phone. Now, in addition to the hugging face space, you can also run this for free on Google Colab. Plus here, they give you all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. If you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week Alibaba continues to cook with some incredible models. So last week they released their most intelligent model yet, QEN 3.5, and this is an open source model that is as intelligent as the top closed models out there including GPT 5.2, Claude and Gemini. But here's the thing, in order to run the full version of QEN 3.5, you need like hundreds of gigabytes of VRAM, which I assume most of you don't have. Fortunately, this week they've released a ton of smaller variants of QEN 3.5 that are as impressive. So here they have this QEN 3.5, 122 billion parameters, 35 billion parameters and 27 billion parameters. Now if you compare these models with some competitors of similar sizes, including GPT-5 mini and Claude Sonnet, you can see that on average these models are just as good or even better. The awesome thing is for some of these, especially the quantized versions, these can fit on consumer devices. So for example, this QN 3.5 27B FP8 version is only 31 gigabytes in size, or we have even more quantized versions of this QN 3.5 27B by and the smallest one is only 10 gigabytes in size. So you only need like 12 gigabytes of VRAM to run one of the most intelligent open source models out there, which is pretty crazy. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to the official page from Quen in the description below. If you scroll down here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Also this week, NVIDIA unveils this really cool AI called EgoScale. This is a system that helps robots learn how to do complex tasks like folding clothes or using tools just by watching and learning from videos of humans doing the same thing. So after training a robot using this EgoScale, scale, it's now able to do things like, for example, operate this screwdriver very accurately like this. Or here's another example, just by watching videos of humans doing similar actions, it can also operate these syringes, or it can also manipulate cards like this, or fold a shirt in different ways. And then here's an example of it being able to open lids from all these different types of bottles. So here's an example of some videos that were used in its dataset to train the AI system. So they took over 20,000 hours of these types of videos where it's viewed from the human's perspective of them doing certain tasks with their hands. It can be anything like folding clothes to cooking things, manipulating objects, folding paper, working with tools, gardening, etc. Now just with these videos themselves, that's not enough. So you also need to label the specific action with a text prompt, plus you also need to use a hand detector to detect the exact hand poses from all these videos. And then all this data is used to train this vision language action model. So this is a type of AI model that combines vision, in other words, what you're seeing plus language, in other words, a text instruction like iron the t-shirt plus action. So like, how can it actually carry out this instruction? So it merges all these inputs into this one vision language action model, which would then be used to power the robot. And as you can see, after deploying this model, these robots are really good at manipulating a ton different items and working with different tools. The awesome thing is if you scroll up to the top of the page here it says the GitHub is coming soon so it looks like they are planning to open source this which is fantastic. For now if you're interested in reading further I'll link to this main page in the description below. All right, next up, this AI is pretty cool. It's called Doc to Laura and Text to Laura from Sakana AI. And this is a way to compress a document or some text instructions that you want the model to use and again and again more efficiently without you having to, you know, copy and paste the entire document or text instructions into your prompt. So first, let me give you some background on the problem. You see, for most large language models today, they often forget documents or instructions or things that you give it if you chat with it for a long time. So in order to solve this, you need to like copy and paste the original document or instructions into the prompt again. It doesn't really have a long-term memory. So what they've done here is they've introduced two new methods on how you can actually compress information that you want it to remember into some fine-tuned smaller models called LORAs. In particular, they proposed two methods. One is to convert a doc into a LORA and another one is to convert text instructions into LORAs. So here's how it works. Let's say you want to upload a document for it to analyze. Well, instead of just copying and pasting the entire document into the prompt, this doc to laura method basically trains a hyper network or basically a small helper neural network to generate a laura that houses this document. So next, when you're chatting with AI and you want to reference the document, instead of pasting the entire document, you can just reference this laura, which is a lot more compressed and efficient. And it's able to answer questions about the document without seeing the entire document. So by capturing the document into this LoRa adapter, it feels like it has a persistent memory of this. And the advantage of this method is it can answer you faster, the model doesn't have to reread the whole document every time. And this also works with really long documents, much longer than the model's usual context window limit. And here's an extra cool thing. They also demonstrated that this doc to LoRa method can also encode information from images in a document in into the LoRa, so that even a pure text model with no vision capabilities is able to answer questions about the image without having ever seen the image. Pretty cool. So that's just docked to LoRa, but in addition, they also introduced a similar tool for text to Laura. So let's say you have a set of really complex instructions, which you want to reuse again and again. For example, if you want to get the AI to write in a certain style, or to do a certain task that requires multiple steps or specific output formats, well, traditionally, again, you would have to keep copying and pasting these instructions into the AI or else it's going to forget after you chat with it for a long time. However, in this instance, you can just compact all your text instructions into a Laura and then feed it through this LLC and then have this LLM pull from the LoRa at any time to follow your specific instructions. It's kind of a way for it to store your instructions into persistent memory in the form of a LoRa. This is quite a technical article, but in a nutshell, that is what this paper is about. And the awesome thing is they've released the GitHub repo to both these tools already. So for example, if we click on dock to LoRa and we scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this page in the description below. Next up, this AI allows you to edit a photo to show what would happen next physically, and this is even more physically accurate than Nano Banana. This AI is called PhysicEdit, And here is an example. Let's say you want to insert a straw into this cup. Now for the top models out there, including GPT image 1.5 and nano banana pro, they weren't able to get this refraction part a hundred percent correct. However, for this new method, it's able to get this refraction part physically correct. And apparently this image editor is trained to have a really good understanding of different physical phenomena. For example, you can get it to move the smartphone to the right. And of course it can do that, but you can also get it to collapse this house of cards and it can do this pretty accurately or you can also get it to stretch this clay and it's able to generate this quite accurately. It also understands some biological phenomena for example having this banana decay like this or having this flower bloom like this or having this plant decay like this. It's also able to understand some thermal stuff so for example having this puddle freeze like this or for example here's what it would render if you heat this butter in this pan. Or it can also generate condensation on this window like this. It also understands a ton of different material properties. For example, this clay hardening, which would turn into this, or some paint peeling off like this, or what would happen if you smashed this tomato with this sphere. So at least in terms of these physics-aware image editing benchmarks, then you can see that this new physic edit method is on par with or outperforms the other open and closed models out there. The awesome thing is they've released this already. So if you click on this code button at the top of the page, this contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Notice that this is basically a LoRa that is based off of Quen Image Edit 2509. So if you wanna learn more about Quen Image Edit, this is one of the best open source image editors you can use right now. Definitely search this on my channel. I've done a few tutorials on this already. Anyways, the link to the GitHub is up here. So if you're interested in checking this out, I'll link to this page in the description below. Also this week, we have a pretty interesting AI called Generated Reality. This basically creates interactive videos based on a person's hand and head movements. So here's how it works. You would basically wear a VR headset, which would record your head and hand movements like this, and then you can plug it through this AI with a text prompt, and it would generate a first-person view video based on your movements. You can prompt it to do a ton of things like waving a flag or holding a torch on a beach or playing with a cat clapping your hands on this tropical beach, fighting a knight, or petting this dog, as well as a ton of other stuff. Now currently this runs at 11 frames per second, and the quality isn't great yet, but you can see how this can be the future of virtual reality, where we can just immerse ourselves in any environment using a text prompt, and we can interact with it via our hands and movements. Now at the top here it says the code is coming soon, so hopefully they will stick to the word and open source this. For now, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, Sony, which we haven't really heard of in the AI space, has released an AI that can generate sound effects and audio for videos up to five minutes long. So here are some examples. All right, so as you can hear, it's able to match exactly what's going on in the video. The audio is able to adapt to when it cuts from scene to scene or when the character does certain actions within the video. Now I featured a ton of these video to audio examples before, such as Hunyuan Video Foley, as well as MM Audio, but here are the claim that this one is even better. So first of all, here is Sony's generation. I'm just sorry, I don't do things well. Good morning, you two will have here. Come on out. They say, so they found a first, you know, the third word you think they need to speak to them in the book, but they're not trying to speak to them all. So they see you. All right, so they're just speaking gibberish. You can't actually tell it what to say, so it's not really that good for videos with people speaking. But anyways, here's another popular one called MM Audio. It's struggling. I like it. Yeah. Well, I don't know. Maybe some instant. Taste. How is that? Yep. What? Me. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey So as you can see and hear, the one from MM Audio isn't as in sync, so it doesn't actually capture the sounds when the balls hit the table, whereas for this new Sony one, the audio is a lot more in sync with the video. Now, how this works is they use something called MMH-Net, which stands for Multimodal Hierarchical Networks, which combines a hierarchical approach with this Mamba architecture to handle long form audio without losing coherence. Anyways, if you scroll up to the top here, it says code coming soon. So it looks like they are going to open source this, which is fantastic. For now, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, your virtual waifu or girlfriend or partner is finally here. This AI is called Sarah. So this can generate basically a full body avatar in virtual reality, which can respond to you in real time. Let's look at their demo. So you do not get in crowded elevators is what you're saying. I will not. I should probably take that advice. I do it. Because you're right, because if you get stuck and you're like, because sometimes you're like packed in there. Yeah, I think of all the- Are you kidding me, John? You're the one who's been in charge of organizing the stargazing event for the past month, and you still can't get the telescope working. Hey, it's not my fault the manufacturer sent us a defective unit. It's not like I had a choice in the matter. Not your fault. You're the one who's been putting off getting a replacement, and now we're running out of time. The event is tomorrow, and we still don't have a working telescope. So how this works is you would wear a virtual reality headset and basically talk to it. And you can see this full body character projected in your environment. Now, the cool thing is this system not only understands what you're seeing and responds to you in real time, but it can also generate full body movements. So you can see this character is moving quite dynamically. Instead of just standing still and talking, they even have like random gestures. It can even detect, you know, where your face and your head is in this 3D space and turn toward you and make natural eye contact. It can adjust its body position, it can react to your movements, and this can run fast enough in real time for most live VR headsets. So this feels like a very real natural conversation with an actual human instead of just a robotic avatar. They even included this pretty cool gaze control, which allows you to control the gaze of the agent. So at a score of zero, this would mean a natural varied eye contact, whereas if you set this to a score of one, which is straight wrong, the agent would constantly maintain eye contact with the user. It depends like what you want. Now there are other state of the art methods for animating full body avatars. For example, this MDM one, which was released like three years ago. But as you can see, this new one on the right generates more natural and dynamic gestures. This one also has less motion artifacts compared to other methods. And then here they're showing how this method also has more natural motion. Now currently, they've only released a technical paper plus the dataset to this. So if you click on this GitHub repo, you can actually download the full dataset that was used to train this AI model, but there's no indication on whether they will release the model for this. Hopefully they will because this looks pretty cool. But anyways, all the links are up here. So if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this page in the description below. Next up, NVIDIA releases their own image editor, which is quite unique. So it functions just like Nano Banana, where you can input images to edit, but instead of inputting one image, this actually requires you to input three images. Here's an example. First, you need to give it a before and after example of an image. So for example, here is the before and then here's the after, and then you need to upload a third image, which you want to edit. So given these three inputs, it's able to know that, all right, I need to convert this image into an architectural sketch like this. And that's indeed what it does. Or here's another example. Again, we need to input three photos. We need to input an example of a before and after. So here we are turning this photo of a bird into Ghibli style. And then next we need to apply the same style transfer to this photo of a cat. And that's indeed what it does. Or here's another example where if we want to turn a photo into clay, well, we need to input a before and after example first. And then we can input this photo and get it to turn him into clay as well. So there are a lot more steps involved. You need to prepare three photos, but the results of this are really good. Like if you have before and after shots of something and you want to clone the exact style of it, then this is quite a useful tool to use. Here's another nice example where if we want to convert this photo into this comic style, well, plugging it through this AI would ensure that it follows the exact style, including this red, yellow, and blue background. If you're interested in in the technical details, here's how it works. It basically uses a modular framework called LoreWeb, which learns to mix and match different editing modules, which here they call LORAs, to help you achieve the desired edit. And this is designed to be more flexible and generalizable compared to other methods. Now, the awesome thing is, at the top here, they've already released the GitHub repo to this, and here it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this page in the description below. And that sums up all the highlights in AI this week. Let me know in the comments what you think of all of this, which piece of news was your favorite, and which tool are you most looking forward to trying out? And if you've made it to here, I've got a treat for you. I'm partnering with Nvidia to give away an RTX 5090 GPU around their GTC 2026 event. With this, you can easily run AI tools locally on your computer. Here's how to enter. Simply click the link in the description to register and attend at least one GTC 2026 session, which will be on March 16th to 19th. You can attend virtually or in person. Here are some of my favorites. Jensen Huang's keynote is an obvious one, but this one on humanoid robots at scale, as well as this one on open world models are also on my watch list. Again, make sure you sign up for GTC using the link in the description below, and then afterwards fill out the form and you're good to go. It's totally free to enter.
