---
title: "LTX 2.3, GPT 5.4, CUDA agent, realtime AI videos, new image models, 360 videos: AI NEWS"
video_id: "KRE8JqTAEQk"
youtube_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KRE8JqTAEQk"
publish_date: "2026-03-08"
duration: "39:12"
duration_seconds: 2352
view_count: 9627
author: "AI Search"

yt_tags:
  []


# AI-enriched metadata
content_type: "News Roundup"
primary_topic: "AI Agents"
difficulty: "Intermediate"
audience:
  - "Engineers"
  - "Product Managers"
entities:
  companies:
    - "OpenAI"
    - "Nvidia"
    - "GitHub"
    - "Hugging Face"
  people:
    - "Jensen Huang"
  products:
    - "GPT-5"
    - "Gemini"
    - "Stable Diffusion"
    - "Hugging Face"
    - "Make"
    - "Opus"
    - "Artifacts"
    - "Nano Banana"
  models:
    - "GPT-5"
    - "Opus 4.5"
    - "Gemini"
    - "Gemini 2"
    - "Gemini 3"
    - "Stable Diffusion"
    - "SDXL"
    - "Flux"
concepts:
  []
summary:
  - "4, CUDA agent, realtime AI videos, new image models, 360 videos: AI NEWS

AI never sleeps, and this week has been absolutely insane"
keywords:
  - "ai-agents"
  - "ai-news"
  - "ai-tools"
  - "artifacts"
  - "coding"
  - "frameworks"
  - "gemini"
  - "github"
  - "gpt-5"
  - "hugging-face"
  - "make"
  - "nano-banana"
  - "nvidia"
  - "openai"
  - "opus"
  - "product-management"
  - "prompting"
  - "stable-diffusion"
  - "tutorials"
---

# LTX 2.3, GPT 5.4, CUDA agent, realtime AI videos, new image models, 360 videos: AI NEWS

AI never sleeps, and this week has been absolutely insane. The best open source video generator with audio just dropped. We also have not one but two state-of-the-art open source image editors just like Nano Banana. We have not one but two real-time video generators that can just run on a single GPU. Alibaba continues to release even smaller models of Quen and these ones can run just on your smartphone or other edge devices. Nvidia releases an AI that can fix and add more details to 3D scenes in real time. This AI takes a single video and turns it into a 360 degree video which you can view as any angle. We have a ton of ridiculous humanoid robot demos and a lot more, so let's jump right in. First up, this AI is pretty cool. It's called KiwiEdit and this is an open source video editing tool, so it's just like Nano Banana but for video. Here are some examples. You can turn an existing video into any style you want. So for example here, we can turn this into sketch style. Or here's another example where we can turn this video into cartoon animation, or we can turn this into watercolor style. You can also input reference images. So for example, here we can input this reference image and here is our original video and we can get it to replace the background with this image and here is our results. Or here's another example where we can replace the background with this image. And here's yet another example. Now, you can also add stuff to an existing video. For example, you can get the boy to wear this hat. Or conversely, you can also remove anything in a video. So for example, here we're prompting it to remove this person from the video. And you can also upload a photo of any object and add that to a video. For example, we can get this girl to wear these sunglasses. And how this works is they combined a multimodal LLM for understanding instructions with a video diffusion transformer model, which is in charge of actually generating and editing the video. Now, if you compare this to other open source video editors, then you can see that on average, this one performs a lot better than other ones I featured on my channel, like vase and Lucy edit. Now, if you compare this with closed source video editors like Kling01, then Kling01 is still the best. It still beats QE Edit. Anyways, the awesome thing is if you scroll up to the top of the page, they've already released everything. So if you click on this GitHub repo and you scroll down a bit, here it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Plus, they've also released the code on training and evaluation. Now, if I go on Hugging Face and inspect one of these models, it is quite large, so the total size is 20 gigabytes in size, you'll need a higher end consumer GPU to run this. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, Tencent releases a really powerful image editor just like Nano Banana. So it's called HYWu, and this is an image editor that is especially good at clothes swapping and style transfer. Here are some examples. You can plug in this initial image as well as these reference images and get Elon to wear these costumes like this. You can see it's able to preserve the details of both reference images very well. Or here's another example where we can upload this image and get her to wear all these different costumes from these reference images. And as you can see, it's able to apply this clothes swap very seamlessly. And then here are some other examples of applying an outfit from another reference photo. So how this works is it turns the reference images and your text prompt into special code and then instantly makes a tiny Laura from it. And then it injects this Laura or this fine-tuned model into the native image editor to generate your final image. And this makes the results a lot more accurate and consistent. Now here's the win rate between HYWU and some other leading open source and closed source image editors. So as you can see for the open source ones like Quen Image Edit and Long Cat Image Edit and Flux 2, HYWU wins most of the time. And even for the closed Seadream 4.5 and GPT Image 1.5, HYWU seems to win most of the time. However, it still loses to Nano Banana 2 and Nano Banana Pro. Note that this is open source, they released this already, so if you click on this GitHub repo and you scroll down a bit, here it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. However, note that the base model is quite large, so you need like eight times 40 gigabytes or four times 80 gigabytes of VRAM, which I'm sure most of you don't have. However, if you scroll up to the top here, it looks like they are planning to release a distilled checkpoint, which should be a bit smaller. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, this AI is super cool. It's called Cube Composer, and this can take a normal video shot from just one camera and turn it into a full 360 degree video that you can view in any direction, like for virtual reality. Plus, this can also upscale the damn video to 4K resolution. So on the site, they actually give you some interactive demos of the 360 degree videos that this AI was able to generate. So here I'm playing around with this example, and then here's another example example of a snowy field, the details are pretty good. Now there are some distortions and errors with this generation. It's not perfect, but it's still pretty impressive that it's able to take just one video and convert it into a 360 degree scene like this. And then here's an example of a highway. And again, it's able to even guess what the back of the scene would look like. Now if you compare this to other competitors like Argus, you can see that the quality is a lot worse. Here's the same snowfield example with Argus, this is absolutely awful. Here's another competitor called Viewpoint and this looks even worse. And then here's the highway example with Viewpoint, this just looks awful. So at least comparing to these two competitors, then Cube Composer is by far the one with the best quality. All right, so here's how it works. It uses a diffusion model that inspects your video one piece at a time and then it breaks it down into a 360 degree sphere with six main components. Each generates a face of the third 3D scene at a time in short chunks. And then it uses this context pool with sparse attention to remember past and future parts and also nearby faces or segments of the 3D scene so that everything blends in seamlessly. And then it also adds some special stuff like cube aware positional encoding and also some padding and blending to make it look even more smooth and seamless. The awesome thing is they've already released the code to this. So if you click on this GitHub repo at the top, and you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, we have a new top open source image editor. So it's called FireRed Image Edit 1.1. The previous version, 1.0 was also really good, but here they've upgraded this to be even better. Here are some examples. So you can take this original image and change the background and her outfit and her pose, but it's able to keep her face consistent the whole time. Or here's another example where we can take this baby and change the pose in the background and generate a completely new photo of this. But notice that it keeps the face consistent. And then here's another example where we can keep his face plus his outfit consistent the entire time. You can also upload a ton of different reference images and merge them all together ensue one photo like this, so it works just like Nano Banana. Here are some more examples where we can get this woman and get her to wear all these items and it's able to seamlessly generate an image from that. Or here's yet another example. Notice that both this dress plus these shoes are really complex in detail, but it's able to accurately render this in its generation. This is a semantic image editor, so you can just prompt it on what you want to edit. Here's an example where we can take an original image and prompt it to add different makeup styles to this face. Here's another cool example where we have this reference photo plus this reference photo of a poster. And let's say we want to add this style of text to this photo. Well, it's able to accurately apply this font like this. Or here's another example where it can accurately apply the font from this reference image onto here. And if you look at these benchmark scores, as you can see, this new FireRed 1.1 even beats the leading open source image generators like Quen Image Edit, as well as as long cat image edit. So currently, at least according to these benchmarks, fire red image edit 1.1 is the best open source image editor for some of these benchmarks. It even surpasses nano banana pro, which is in yellow. The awesome thing is as with the previous FireRed models, they've already open sourced this. Now if you click on files and versions, note that this is like almost 60 gigabytes in size. So unfortunately, you're not going to be able to fit this on most consumer GPUs, but hopefully there's going to be some GGOFs or quantized versions of this, which will be more compressed. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this AI is also pretty crazy. So it's called Heal. Helios, and this can generate long videos in real time. Here it says this can generate 19.5 frames per second video on a single H100 GPU, and this can generate videos up to a minute long. Now, I featured several real-time AI video generators in the past, but all of them were pretty bad quality. This is actually the best quality one I've seen so far. Now, yes, this still requires an H100, which I'm sure most of you do not have, but it's a good start. I mean, the fact that This can generate almost 20 frames per second of this quality with just one GPU is already really impressive. And I'm sure it's only going to get faster and more efficient in the coming months. Now, given that this is real time, the quality isn't as great as like the top models out there, which are a lot sharper. You can still see some like noticeable noise and lack of detail, but it's pretty good. And then here's an example of the terminal as it generates a video. So you can see how fast this is. And this is incredibly fast. As you can see here, it takes like less than two seconds to generate over 30 frames. I featured a ton of these methods on my channel before such as like reward forcing, self forcing. And as you can see, in terms of frames per second, the distilled version of Helios is really quick. It's among the top out there at 19.5 frames per second. Not the fastest, but the ones that beat it are really bad in quality. And notice that there are only 1.3 billion parameters, whereas Helios is a lot larger. So especially if you look at this graph and you compare the video quality of long real-time video generation, notice that Helios outperforms the other methods. And if you look at this graph where you compare Helios videos with other top video generators that are not real time such as one 2.2 long cat video and LTX two you can see that it's actually on par with some of the top models. Anyways, if you scroll up to the top of the page, they've released everything already. So if you click on this GitHub repo, and you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to install and run this locally on your computer. They offer a ton of different pipelines where you can run this. Plus, they also released the training code for this as well. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, we have this really cool project called enhancing spatial understanding in image generation via reward modeling. In simple terms, this is basically a framework that improves image generators so they can better understand spatial relationships in your prompt. For example, if you add words like left or right of something behind something above below, then for most image models out there, it's not able to actually capture the position of everything that you specify, but after adding this framework, it's a lot better. So here are some examples. Let's say here's the text prompt in a dining room, a long table holds three candles arranged in a line. From the viewer's perspective, the tallest candle is on the left, medium is in the center, shortest is on the right. We have a bowl of fruit sitting behind the center candle aligned with it. And then we have two plates placed in front of the line of candles, one aligned with the tallest and one aligned with the shortest. And then a painting hangs on the wall centered above the bowl. Now here is the generation from just the raw flux model. And as you can see, the candles aren't arranged in a line. Plus the tallest candle is not on the left. The bowl is not behind the center candle. There are just a lot of errors with this generation. However, if you use this new model, you can see that it actually follows your prompt. Exactly. The candles are arranged in a line. We have the tallest candle on the left. There is a bowl of fruits behind the center candle. There is a plate in front of the left and the right candle. Plus, a painting is also centered and behind the center candle. It follows this perfectly. Or here's another example. Here we have an armchair faces a small round table. A floor lamp sits behind the chair aligned with its backrest center. A teacup sits on the table's left side. Small plate of cookies sits on the table's right side, etc, etc. Now, again, here is the original image from Flux, but as you can see, the lamp isn't actually behind the backrest of the chair. The cup isn't on the table's left side and the cookies aren't on the right side. Whereas for this new method, you can see the lamp is indeed centered behind the backrest of the chair, plus the items on the table are also arranged properly. Or here's another example where we have an orange cone centered behind a car. A backpack lies on the ground to the car's left rear tire. A water bottle stands to the car's right rear tire. And then a map is spread on the car trunk lid center. A jacket is draped over the trunk's right edge. So you can see here, the jacket is wrong. The map is not centered. Plus the water bottle is not near the right tire. Whereas for this new method, it got everything correct. So how they made this is they first created this huge dataset with over 80,000 pairs comparing correct versus incorrect spatial arrangements. For example, here is the prompt and here's the correct answer, but they also intentionally edited the image to make it wrong. And then afterwards they trained a reward model using this data set of correct and incorrect pairs. And afterwards this framework now understands, you know, the spatial arrangement of objects based on your prompt a lot better. The awesome thing is if you scroll up to the top of the page and you click on this GitHub repo here, it says we are planning to release the data set and the model weights. So stay tuned for that. If you really care about, you know, the spatial arrangement of objects in your images, then this might be a good framework to use. Anyways, if you're interested, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, ByteDance isn't done cooking yet, so they also released this crazy tool called Spectrum. And this is a way to speed up AI image and video generation by predicting future steps instead of actually computing them. So you can basically apply Spectrum on top of any existing video or image workflow. So for example, here they applied it to Hunyan Video to get it to speed up the generation by like 3.5 times without any loss in quality. And then instead of video, you can also apply spectrum to an image generator like flux to also speed up the generation by 3.5 times. So here's a comparison with its image generations compared to other acceleration methods. Spectrum is on the far right. And as you can see with the same prompt, the quality is pretty much the same as the original flux generation, but it's just that spectrum is like 4.7 times faster, even faster than the other acceleration methods, which introduce a ton of errors in the generation. then here is a video generation comparison. So on the left is the original video generated with Hunyan video at 50 steps. In the middle is this new spectrum generated with only 14 steps. So it's a 3.5 times increase. And then on the right is another acceleration called Taylor Sear. But as you can see, the quality of this competitor is a lot worse. The colors are a lot more saturated. Whereas for spectrum, it's really hard to tell this apart from the original generation, even though it's a lot faster. And then instead of Hunyan video, here's another test using Wan 2.1. Again, Spectrum is in the middle. A competitor, Taylor Sear, is on the right. And it just has way too many errors. As you can see here, Spectrum looks almost the same as the original video. So the quality is great, but you can generate this like 3.5 times faster. If you're curious on how this works, it basically uses a math technique called the Chebyshev polynomials to model how features change over time. And it uses this to forecast future steps. Without saying, spending more compute. So that makes it a lot faster, but without degrading the quality much. The awesome thing is they've already released the code to this. So if you click on this GitHub repo and you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Note that it works for both text to image for a ton of different models like flux and SDXL, as well as text video for HunYuan and Wan 2.1. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. I've been covering the best image and video generators and it can get very overwhelming. Fortunately, Higgsfield, the sponsor of this video, brings everything together all in one place. They just released Soul Cinema Preview, their most cinematic in-house photo model yet, built specifically for creators and AI filmmakers. It produces cinema-grade images with rich textures, deep mood, and spontaneous quality. This works seamlessly with Soul ID so you can make your own character and generate images from that. It also works great with Solhex for precise color control over your generations. Think commercial campaigns, AI filmmaking, and music videos. Anything that needs to feel high-end. And right now it comes with 10,000 free generations on Pro Plus plans. So it's a great time to jump in. If you want to try Seoul Cinema Preview, as well as the other top image and video generators out there, all in one platform, definitely check out Higgsfield. Click the link in the description below to try it out today. Next up, this AI is pretty crazy. So ByteDance just built an AI system that automatically writes faster GPU code for AI. It's called CUDA agent, and this is quite technical. So let's break this down in simple terms. You see most modern AI systems like GPT or image models, video generators, they all run on GPUs and GPUs use special programs called kernels that execute code in parallel really fast. So a kernel is basically a program that runs on a ton GPU cores at once but these are really hard to write and optimize. So here they've created a tool called CUDA agent which not only writes out this GPU code but it also tests it and measures its speed and improves the quality until it becomes faster and faster. So it's like an AI agent that's optimized for writing code for GPUs and the output of this CUDA agent is actually ridiculously good. So here are some metrics for your reference. Here they're comparing it with some of the top models out there including Gemini 3 Pro and Opus 4.5. But as you can see, this new CUDA agent is even better at writing GPU code across all these metrics. So the correct rate of the GPU code, as well as all these speed metrics, you can see by far it's better than the other models. Now, the awesome thing is they've released everything already. So if you click on this GitHub repo, and you scroll down a bit here, it contains the entire data set that they use to train this agent. And then here is the entire agent workflow. So you can download and try this yourself. as well. This is very technical, but it's quite a big deal if you're into optimizing CUDA kernels to make AI models run faster. So if you're interested, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this AI is super helpful. So it's called Utonia, and this is a single AI model that understands all types of 3D point cloud data. Now, traditionally, you need to build separate models for scanning different types of 3D data. For example, self-driving LiDAR scans would have a separate model from indoor room scans, which would also be separate from like satellite or remote sensing data. But here, Utonia is one encoder that works across all of them. And this allows the same model to be used for many things like robotics, autonomous driving, virtual reality, spatial reasoning, 3D segmentation, and more. So as you can see here, it can work with a ton of different types of point cloud data. This is a unified model that can convert any type of 3D point cloud data, including outdoor LiDAR data or indoor scans or CAD models, and basically encode them to be used for downstream tasks. The awesome thing is they've already released this. So if you click on this GitHub repo and you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to install and run this locally on your computer. Note that this is quite a small model so if I click on the hugging face repo this is only like 550 megabytes in size. Anyways if you're interested in reading further I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week we have another video editor called FreeEdit and this is quite interesting. So this edits videos by changing the first frame and then having the AI propagate those changes throughout the rest of the video. For example we can change the the background from this desert hill into some sand castles, and that would just be the first frame. Now what free edit does is it then applies this background change to the rest of the video. Or here's another example where we can take the first frame of this video and turn the cart to red, and then free edit would make this car red throughout the rest of the video. Now, if you compare this with other video editing methods like go with the flow or I2V edit, et cetera, notice that this new one, free edit, just performs a lot better. Everything is a lot more consistent. Here's another example for your reference. Now, how this works is it uses something called editing aware REE injection. So as the diffusion model is generating the video, you can see that it adds these REE blocks, which basically uses optical flow to track the edited regions across frames. And then it adaptively controls how much of the original video gets edited with the new features. Unfortunately for this one, they haven't released the code or anything yet. So all we have is a technical paper. on this, but if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week we have yet another real-time video generator. It's called Real Wonder, and this lets you generate real-time videos showing what happens when you apply a force to objects in a certain direction. So for example, here we can adjust how this object would move in this water in real-time, as dictated by the direction of the orange arrow. Or here's another example where we can adjust the orange arrow to the right, and here's what happens. Or here's another example where we can apply wind in the direction of this orange arrow to these clothes. And here's what happens. Here's another example where if we apply force in one direction, the objects would move in that direction in real time. You can even apply multiple forces. So for example, one to the left and one to the right, and it would still work. Now here are some specs. This can run on 13 frames per second on a single H200 GPU at 480p resolution. Now, of course, most of you don't have an H200. This is still too bulky to run on a consumer GPU, but it's a nice proof of concept. Now, if you scroll up here, the awesome thing is they've released the code to this already. So if you click on this GitHub repo and you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this AI is really helpful for creating ads. So it's called Hi-Fi Paint, and this seamlessly inserts products into photos of people holding them. So for example, let's say you have this product image and this person. Well, you can insert the product into this person seamlessly like this. Or here's another example, you can insert this product into this photo like this, or this product into this photo like this. Now, we already have a ton of image editors that can do this, like Quine Image Edit and Nano Banana, but this one they claim is specialized to do this particular task. So in theory, it should preserve the accuracy and consistency of the product even better. So for example, here's a comparison with this new Hi-Fi in Paint with other methods like ACE++ or Insert Anything or Flux Context, which is pretty old. So it seems like they're cherry picking here, but nevertheless, you can see that this new Hi-Fi in Paint is the best in terms of preserving the product accuracy. Here's another example where, as you can see, HiFi inPaint is a lot better at preserving the look of the product. Here are some other examples for your reference. So how this works is they use a regular diffusion transformer model to generate the image, but they added a special component called this shared enhancement attention, which refines the product details using high frequency maps. Now, if you scroll up to the top here, they have released a GitHub repo, And here it says, we will release the code, dataset, and model after internal review. So stay tuned for that. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, Alibaba continues to release some really cool models. So last week, I mentioned that they released QEN 3 Medium. These are a family of medium-sized models. So one is 27 billion parameters, another is a mixture of experts with 35 billion parameters, but only 3 billion are active when you use it. Well, you can run those on like high-end consumer GPUs, but what if you don't even have a high-end GPU? Well, this week, they released even smaller QEN 3.5 models. So this week we have QN 9 billion parameters, 4 billion parameters, 2 billion, and even 0.8 billion parameters. If I click on this 0.81, it's only two gigabytes in size. So you can even fit this comfortably on just a CPU or even a mobile device. And if I click on the 9 billion one, this is like 20 gigabytes in size, but with some compression or quantization, you can probably comfortably fit this on a regular consumer GPU. Now here's the cool thing about these small models. So the leftmost columns are QN 3.5 9B and 4B, and as you can see, it's on par with some even larger models like QN 80B, as well as some closed source flash models like GPT-5 Nano and Gemini 2.5 Flash Light. This is extremely impressive. So for like instruction following, it does incredibly good. Same with graduate level science questions, same with Harvard level mathematics and also multilingual knowledge. It's especially good at MMMU Pro which is like visual understanding and reasoning. So anyways, if you are looking for the best but smallest model to fit on a low end GPU or on your mobile phone or other edge devices, these smaller QN 3.5 models might be a good option for you. Anyways, all of them are listed on this QN 3.5 collections page. So if you're interested, I'll link to this page in the description below. Also this week, we have a new open source video generator with audio natively built in. So it's called LTX 2.3, and this is incredibly powerful. Here are some examples. Video has been greatly improved. Dialogue sounds especially clean. Are you sure this is a good idea? You're gonna love it! Now this is a super flexible tool. This can take in just a text prompt or also an image to use as the first frame or basically image to video. Plus this can also take in audio which you want to use. Now this can do up to 20 seconds and up to 4k in resolution. Plus the biggest upgrade for me is that now version 2.3 can do vertical videos as well. Whereas for the previous version, it can only do horizontal videos. And here they claim that version 2.3 is sharper in detail. It's better at following your prompt. It's better consistency if you use image to video. Plus the audio is a bit cleaner. Now, if you want to get this installed on your computer, don't worry. I'm working on a full tutorial, which will come out next. I was actually planning to release the tutorial, but GPT 5.4 also came out on the same day, so I decided to prioritize that instead. For now, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Alright, so that brings me to GPT 5.4, which was actually released the same day as LTX 2.3. This is OpenAI's most capable and efficient frontier model yet. And this is so good at reasoning, agentic coding, doing regular office tasks like working with spreadsheets, docs, and PowerPoint presentations. Plus, it's also incredibly good at physics and math. Anyways, I already did a full review video on it, so I'm not going to repeat too much here, definitely see this video to get a sense of all the cool things that it can do. Next up, this AI is pretty cool. So it's called Art Fixer, and this enhances and fixes 3D reconstructions. So here are some examples. We currently have a ton of different methods to reconstruct a 3D view from just a few photos of that scene. However, if you have just a few photos, like two or three of the scene, then it's really hard to construct an entire 3D scene from that. So these are called sparse 3D reconstructions. because you don't really have a lot of data, so there's a lot of missing details in the scene, as you can see from these three different models. Well, this new Artifixer basically takes in these reconstructions and uses diffusion models to enhance the details and fix all these issues. So after plugging it through Artifixer 3D, you can see that the scene looks a lot more coherent and detailed. And then here's an indoor example of this bonsai tree. Notice the floor and the background is very messy with a ton of different items, but it's able to make this super coherent and fix all these issues. Here's another really difficult example of this messy counter. And again, as you can see, Artifixer is able to fill in any missing data, fix any artifacts and generate a very coherent 3D render of this scene. Here's another indoor example of a really messy living room. And again, Artifixer 3D is the only one that is able to generate this 3D scene smoothly. Here's another comparison and note that from the original image data of the 3D scene, you can see like the background isn't really captured properly, especially if you look at the first two columns. So it's really hard for the AI to guess the background. Artifixer is able to fill in the background incredibly seamlessly, much better than the other competitors. Now, while this is a really incredibly useful model, for now, that's all the information we have. There's no indication whether they will open source this or not. There's not even a GitHub repo. But if you are interested in reading further and checking out more examples, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Now, actually similar to the previous tool, NVIDIA also teases their own 3D enhancer. So it's called Diffusion Harmonizer, and this also fixes visual artifacts in real-time simulations. So here's one example. Here's a frame in the video where you can just randomly paste in these cars from somewhere else. You can see that they're not really blending in the scene, but after plugging it through Diffusion Harmonizer, all three cars are able to blend in seamlessly with this environment. It's able to change the white balance, the colors, the shadows, et cetera. All right, here's an example where on the left, again, we just paste in some random cars. They don't even have shadows. Everything looks very fake, but after plugging it through diffusion harmonizer, you can see that this scene looks very seamless as if these cars are actually driving on this road. Here's another example where on the left is just a simulation. You can see this looks really fake, but after plugging it through diffusion harmonizer, it adds shadows to the cars and everything just looks a lot more real. Now there are other alternatives for you to kind of edit and enhance a simulation, but as you can see, they're pretty bad. They're probably cherry picking here. I mean, like SDEdit based on stable diffusion three is extremely old, but nevertheless, you can see that this new method from Nvidia just looks a lot more realistic. Now, if you scroll up to the top right now, they've only released a technical paper. There's no indication whether they will open source this or not, but if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Alright, next up, this AI is incredible. So it's called Omni Extreme, and this controls humanoid robots and allows them to perform some incredibly athletic and extreme movements like breakdancing, flips, and martial arts. So after applying this framework to the robot, you can see that it's able to do some incredible stuff like jumping, dancing, and flipping. I mean, look at that. You can see here it's doing like two consecutive backflips and now it's breakdancing. I mean, this is crazy and everything looks so fluid and natural. Here are some other breakdancing examples. You can even do like high speed flips like this and notice that it's able to do all of these kicks in one continuous scene. And then here are some other examples of some high speed flips. It could even flip from just jumping with one leg, which is crazy. Here you can see it trying to do a handstand and balancing. And then here is another incredibly impressive balancing act. This is really hard for a humanoid robot to pull off. Here's how this works in simple terms. So they first broke this down into a pre-training phase where the robot learns each individual movement in simulation. So they use what are called motion tracking experts which are basically teachers that are really good at imitating one kind of hard movements such as breakdancing or kung fu or flips. And then these experts are combined into one unified base policy using a technique called flow matching. So this creates a really high capacity brain that already knows how to roughly do a huge variety of these extreme motions. However, to make it actually work on the real robot, you also need post training. So here in the post training, this policy is basically frozen, but they also add another lightweight residual policy. And this part makes sure the moves don't destroy the real motors or make the robot lose balance or violate any physics limits. So this post training part basically allows the robot to execute these moves fluidly and naturally without falling down or breaking things. The awesome thing is if you scroll up to the top of the page, they've actually released the code to this. So on their GitHub repo, if you scroll down a bit here, it says they've already released the checkpoints and the evaluation code. So here are all the instructions on how to download and test this out yourself if you happen to have a Unitree robot lying around. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, this AI is pretty interesting. It's called Track for World, and this takes a normal video and figures out exactly where every single pixel moves in 3D space over time. So for example here, let's say we take this parkour video. Well, we can plug it through this AI, and it's able to track all the pixels and how they move in the scene. Or here's a skiing example, and again, it's able to track all the pixels of the scene as they move over time. And then here is a swing example. So from just one video, this is able to create like 3D paths for every point of the scene plus the basic 3D shape of the scene. So you can potentially use this data to reconstruct this in 3D. And you can also use this for very accurate motion tracking. So here's an example of a video and we can plug it through this AI to very accurately track the motion of this person. or here's another example. And then here's an example of a 3D scene reconstructed from this video where it tracks the moving characters. So how this works is it uses one big vision transformer model to understand the whole scene at once. And then it also uses other components to predict the 2D and 3D motion together to combine them smoothly into one coherent scene. Now on this page, they have released an interactive demo for you to try this out. Also, they've released the GitHub to this already. So if you scroll down a bit Here it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. And that sums up all the highlights in AI this week. Let me know in the comments what you think of all of this, which piece of news was your favorite, and which tool are you most looking forward to trying out? Thanks for watching and if you enjoyed this video, remember to like and subscribe. And if you've made it to here, I've got a treat for you. I'm partnering with Nvidia to give away an RTX 5090 GPU around their GTC 2026 event. With this, you can easily run AI tools locally on your computer. Here's how to enter. Simply click the link in the description to register and attend at least one GTC 2026 session, which will be on March 16th to 19th. you can attend virtually or in person. Here are some of my favorites. Jensen Huang's keynote is an obvious one, but this one on humanoid robots at scale, as well as this one on open world models are also on my watch list. Again, make sure you sign up for GTC using the link in the description below, and then afterwards fill out the form and you're good to go. It's totally free to enter.
